IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE
AMIR DEFINO, ATC * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent ud BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
* Case Number: 2225-0194 B

* * * * * * * * * * * * *

CONSENT ORDER

On or about December 5, 2024, the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the

“Board”) initiated an investigation of AMIR DEFINO, ATC (the “Respondent”), License

Number A0001649, for possibly practicing athletic training in the State of Maryland

without an approved Athletic Trainer/Supervising Physician Evaluation and Treatment

Protocol (the “Evaluation and Treatment Protocol”), At the conclusion of its investigation,

Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Board determined that it has grounds to issue

disciplinary charges against the Respondent for failing to comply with provisions of the

Maryland Athletic Trainers Act (the “Act’”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occupations (“Health

Occ.”) §§ 14-5D-01 ef seg. (2021 Repl. Vol. & 2024 Supp.).
The pertinent provisions of the Act are as follows:

Health Occ. § 14-5D-14. Denial of license, reprimand, probation, or
suspension or revocation of license.

(a) Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this title, a
disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum
of the disciplinary panel, may deny a license to any applicant,
reprimand any licensee, place any licensee on probation, or suspend
or revoke a license, if the applicant or licensee:
(3) Is guilty of unprofessional or immoral conduct in the practice
of athletic training[.]

Health Oce. § 14-5D-11. Supervision required; evaluation and
treatment protocol.

(b) Before an athletic trainer may practice athletic training, the athletic

trainer shall:

(3) Except as provided in § 14-5D-11.3(a) of this subtitle, submit
an original, signed copy of the evaluation and treatment
protocol for Board approval.

COMAR 10.32.08.06 Evaluation and Treatment Protocol
B. Process and Approval.

(1) _ A licensed athletic trainer shall:

(a) Submit an evaluation and treatment protocol on a form
approved by the Board; and

(b) Pay the fee as specified in Regulation .08 of this
chapter[.]

Prior to the issuance of disciplinary charges, the Respondent agreed to enter into
this Consent Order, consisting of Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, and
Consent.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel B finds the following facts:

1. The Respondent was licensed to practice athletic training in the State of
Maryland on July 2, 2024, under License Number A0001649. The Respondent’s license

is scheduled to expire on September 30, 2025, subject to renewal.
2. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was employed as a athletic
trainer at an all-boys college preparatory school (the “School”)! located in Baltimore,
Maryland.

3. On or about December 5, 2024, a staff member at the Board’s licensing unit
received a call from the Respondent inquiring why he was unable to view his Athletic
Trainer/Supervising Physician Evaluation and Treatment Protocol (the “Evaluation and
Treatment Protocol”) on his Board online profile. On the same date, the Board staff
confirmed that an Evaluation and Treatment Protocol concerning the Respondent was
never previously filed with or approved by the Board.

4. As a result of the Respondent’s inquiry, the Board initiated an investigation
of the Respondent.

5. The Board’s investigation revealed that the School hired the Respondent to
provide injury evaluation and rehabilitation programming at the School with a starting date
of July 1, 2024. In anticipation of his employment with the School, the Respondent applied
for a license to practice athletic training in Maryland, which was issued on July 2, 2024.

6. Although the Board received and granted the Respondent’s application for
licensure, it did not receive an Evaluation and Treatment Protocol from the Respondent or
the School around that time.

7. From late July 2024 to early December 2024, the Respondent practiced

athletic training at the Schoo! without an approved Evaluation and Treatment Protocol.

‘For confidentiality and privacy reasons, the names of individuals and institutions are not disclosed in this
document.

3

8. On December 4, 2024, while conducting a routine audit, the Respondent’s
supervising physician (the “Supervising Physician”) at the School was unable to confirm
that the Respondent had an approved Evaluation and Treatment Protocol. The Supervising
Physician informed the Respondent, who subsequently made an inquiry with the Board’s
licensing staff on December 5, 2024.

9. The Respondent and the Supervising Physician subsequently filed an
Evaluation and Treatment Protocol on December 6, 2024, which the Board received on
December 11, 2024, and approved on December 17, 2024.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Panel B concludes as a matter of law that
the Respondent engaged in unprofessional conduct in the practice of athletic training and
practiced athletic training without an approved Evaluation and Treatment Protocol, in
violation of Health Occ. §14-5SD-14, §14-5D-11(b)(3) and COMAR 10.32.08.06B(1)(a)
and (b).

ORDER

It is, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Panel B, hereby:

ORDERED that the Respondent is hereby REPRIMANDED, and it is further

ORDERED that, within one (1) year from the effective date of this Consent Order,
the Respondent shall pay a civil fine of TWO-HUNDRED and FIFTY DOLLARS

($250). The payment shall be by bank certified check or money order made payable to the
Maryland Board of Physicians, P.O. Box 37217, Baltimore, Maryland 21297; and it is
further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent
Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive
Director or her designee signs the Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which
has imposed the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-

607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6) (2021 Repl. Vol.).

oa ho Signature on file

Date Christine A. Farrelly! Executive Director J
Maryland State Board of Physicians

CONSENT.

I, Amir Defino, ATC, acknowledge that I am aware of my right to consult with and
be represented by counsel in considering this Consent Order and in any proceedings that
would otherwise result from the charges.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the Board will not entertain any request for amendments or
modifications to any condition.

I am aware of the right to a hearing before a disciplinary panel of the Board pursuant
to COMAR 10.32.22.06 concerning disciplinary charges that could have been issued

against me. I waive this right and elect to sign this Consent Order instead.
5
I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all

other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those substantive

and procedural protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the
Board to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order.

I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth
in this Consent Order as a resolution of the pending disciplinary matters. I waive any right
to contest the Findings of Fact and the Conclusions of Law set out in this Consent Order. I
waive all rights to appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order without reservation, and I fully understand and

comprehend the language and meaning of its terms.

4/9/92 Signature on file

Date Amir Defino,’/ATC
The Respondent
NOTARY
srateor Man load

j Aoi
CITY / COUNTY OF fone Arade|

3 4s 4
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this g2° day of September 2025,
before me, a Notary Public of the foregoing State and City/County, personally appeared

Amir Defino, ATC and made oath in due form of law that signing the foregoing Consent

Order was his/her voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and notarial seal.

DANIEL YANG
NOTARY PUBLIC ;
ANNE ARUNDEL COUNTY ff
MARYLAND iy
My Commission Expires January 22, 2029

Notary Public
