IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

JACQUELINE Q. RIPPLE, ATC * MARYLAND STATE

Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: A00676 * Case Number: 7723-0085
* * * * * * * * * * * * * *
ORDER ON PETITION TO TERMINATE SUSPENSION OF ATHLETIC
TRAINER LICENSE

PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND

On May 24, 2023, JACQUELINE Q. RIPPLE, Athletic Trainer, (the
“Respondent”) License Number A00676, entered into a Consent Order with Disciplinary
Panel B (“Panel B” or the “Panel”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”). In the Consent Order, Panel B concluded that the Respondent was guilty of
unprofessional conduct in the practice of athletic training, was professionally, physically,
or mentally incompetent, was habitually intoxicated, and provided professional services
while under the influence of alcohol, in violation of Health Occ. §§ 14-5D-14(a)(3), (4),
(6), and (8)(i), respectively. !

The Consent Order reprimanded the Respondent, terminated the Order of Summary
Suspension dated December 7, 2022 as moot, suspended the Respondent’s Maryland
athletic trainer license for a minimum period of six months, and required the Respondent
to comply with certain terms and conditions of suspension, including: enrolling and

participating in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”);

' The May 24, 2023 Consent Order is incorporated by reference and is available upon request.

aqeeegscsneapgee es
participating in all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP;
and taking and successfully completing a course in professionalism. The Consent Order
provided that the Respondent may submit a written petition to terminate the suspension,
upon notification to the Board by MPRP that the Respondent had complied with all terms
and conditions of the suspension and is safe to return to the practice of athletic training.
The Consent Order further provided that if the Panel determined that the Respondent could
safely return to the practice of athletic training, the suspension may be terminated through
an order of the Panel, and the Panel may impose any terms and conditions it deemed
appropriate on the Respondent’s return to practice, including, but not limited to, probation
and/or continuation of the Respondent’s enrollment in MPRP.

On October 1, 2024, the Board received the Respondent petition to terminate the
suspension, as well as written notification from MPRP stating that MPRP’s full clinical
team endorsed the termination of the Respondent’s suspension, and confirming that she
has been fully cooperative with her rehabilitation agreement. The Respondent also
completed a course in professionalism on June 23, 2024.

On December 18, 2024, the Respondent participated by phone before Panel B for
consideration of her petition. Panel B reviewed the Respondent’s file and heard oral

presentations from the Respondent and the administrative prosecutor for the State.

CONSIDERATION OF PETITION

Throughout her participation with MPRP, the Respondent has demonstrated a

strong commitment to all aspects of her treatment and rehabilitation. Before Panel B, the
Respondent expressed awareness and understanding of the nature and gravity of her
behavior, and demonstrated insight and reflection by accepting full responsibility for her
actions and conveying remorse for her conduct. Panel B commends the Respondent for her
dedication to her recovery and her full engagement in taking extensive measures to
appropriately address the issues that led to the summary suspension of her license in 2022.

Panel B concludes that the Respondent is fit to practice safely as an athletic trainer.
The Panel, therefore, will terminate the suspension of the Respondent’s license subject to

probation and certain probationary conditions.

ORDER

Disciplinary Panel B finds that the Respondent has complied with the terms of the
May 24, 2023 Consent Order and is safe to return to the practice of athletic training if
specific terms and conditions are in place. It is, thus, by Disciplinary Panel B, hereby:

ORDERED that the suspension imposed by the May 24, 2023 Consent Order is
TERMINATED; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is placed on PROBATION? for a minimum period

of TWO (2) YEARS from the effective date of this Order. During the probationary

period, the Respondent shall comply with the following terms and conditions of

probation:

1. The Respondent shall remain enrolled in MPRP as follows:

(a) The Respondent shall continue her Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP, or be

2 If the Respondent’s license expires during the period of probation, the probation and any conditions will
be tolled.

ge pegeeeganagegees
(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

entered into an amended Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan, as determined by MPRP;

The Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all
MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited
to, the terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with
MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy,
treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP;

The Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent
forms requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent
forms to authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to
the Board and to authorize the Board to disclose relevant information
from MPRP records and files in a public order. The Respondent shall
not withdraw her release/consent;

The Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from)
outside entities (including all of the Respondent’s current therapists
and treatment providers) verbal and written information concerning
the Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the
medical records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to,
mental health and drug or alcoho! evaluation and treatment records.
The Respondent shall not withdraw her release/consent; and

The Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or
conditions, including the terms or conditions of the Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s)
constitutes a violation of this Order.

2. The Respondent shall not apply for early termination of probation or request

that this Order be amended or modified; and it is further

ORDERED that any request for amendments or modifications to this Order shall

not be considered; and it is further

ORDERED that a violation of probation constitutes a violation of this Order; and

it is further
ORDERED that after the Respondent has fully and satisfactorily complied with all
terms and conditions of probation, and the minimum two-year period of probation imposed
by this Order has passed, the Respondent may submit a written petition for termination of
probation. After consideration of the petition, the probation may be terminated through an
order of a disciplinary panel. The Respondent may be required to appear before the
disciplinary panel to discuss her petition for termination. The disciplinary panel may grant
the petition to terminate the probation through an order of the disciplinary panel, if the
Respondent has successfully complied with all of the probationary terms and conditions
and if there are no pending complaints related to the charges that led to the May 24, 2023
Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an opportunity
for a hearing. If the disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute as to a material
fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of
Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel;
and if the disciplinary panel determines there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact,
the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is
further

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this Order,
the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the Respondent on probation

with appropriate terms and conditions, suspend the Respondent’s license with appropriate
terms and conditions, or revoke the Respondent’s license to practice athletic training in
Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth
above, impose a civil monetary fine on the Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and conditions of this Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Order is the date the Order is signed by
the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive Director or her
designee signs the Order on behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, which has imposed the terms
and conditions of this Order; and it is further

ORDERED that this Order on Petition to Terminate Suspension is a public
document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6). (Repl.

Vol. 2021).

Signature On File
2\\a0
Ja \ a4 Ellen Douglas Smith 7

Deputy Director
Maryland Board of Physicians

