IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE
AUBREY ANCIL KING, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Applicant * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
* Case Number: 2224-0078A
* x * x & * x x * * * * *
FINAL ORDER

On April 26, 2024, Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board
of Physicians (the “Board”) notified AUBREY ANCIL KING, M.D. (the “Applicant”) of
its intent to deny his Application for Initial Medical License (the “Application”). The
Notice informed the Applicant that unless he requested a hearing in writing within 30 days
of the date of mailing of the Notice, Panel A intended to sign this Final Order, a copy of
which was enclosed. More than 30 days have elapsed, and the Applicant failed to request
ahearing. Therefore, Panel A hereby denies the Applicant’s Application.

The basis for Panel A’s action is pursuant to the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the
“Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occupations (“Health Occ.”) §§ 14-401 ef seg. (2021 Repl.
Vol. and 2023 Supp.). The pertinent provisions of the Act provide:

Health Occ. § 14-205. Miscellaneous powers and duties.

(b) Additional powers.

(3) Subject to the Administrative Procedure Act and the hearing
provisions of § 14-405 of this title, a disciplinary panel may

deny a license to an applicant . . . for:

@ Any of the reasons that are grounds for action under §
14-404 of this title[.]
Health Occ. § 14-404. Denials, reprimands, probations, suspensions, and
revocations — Grounds.

(a) In general. — Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the

quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place
any licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:

(21) Is disciplined by a licensing or disciplinary authority or
convicted or disciplined by a court of any state or country or
disciplined by any branch of the United States uniformed
services or the Veterans' Administration for an act that would be
grounds for disciplinary action under this section[.]

The underlying grounds for disciplinary action under Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(21)
includes the following provisions of Health Occ. § 14-404(a):
(3) Is guilty of:

(ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine; and

(22) Fails to meet appropriate standards as determined by
appropriate peer review for the delivery of quality medical and
surgical care performed in an outpatient surgical facility,
office, hospital, or any other location in this State[.]

INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS
Panel A finds:
1. The Applicant was issued a medical license in the State of California on
September 16, 1985, which is valid until September 30, 2025. The Applicant also was

issued a medical license in the State of New York on October 12, 2023, which is valid until

September 30, 2025, and a medical license in the State of New Jersey on November 13,
2023, which is valid until June 30, 2025. The Applicant is board-certified in Psychiatry,
with a subspeciality certification in Child and Adolescent Psychiatry.

2. At all times relevant hereto, the Applicant is not and has never been licensed
to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

3. On or about December 6, 2023, the Applicant submitted his Application to
the Board. The Application required the Applicant to answer “YES” or “NO” to a series
of questions and provide written explanations for all “YES” responses.

4. The Applicant answered “YES” to the following question on Part 5 —

Medical Licensing Exams & History, Licensing History on the Application:

Question c. Has any disciplinary action ever been taken against your
license?
5. The Applicant provided a written explanation for his affirmative response,

stating: “Effective 9/15/2023, my California license was placed on probation due to
negligence and repeated negligent acts even though I did not make any admission to these
charges.”

6. The Applicant also answered “YES” to the following question on Part 6 —
Character and Fitness on the Application:

Question c. Has a state licensing or disciplinary board (including
Maryland), a comparable body in the armed services, or
the Veterans Administration, ever taken action against
your license? Such actions include, but are not limited
to, limitations of practice, required education
admonishment or reprimand, suspension, probation or
revocation.
7. The Applicant provided a written explanation for his affirmative response,
stating: “I am placed on four years’ probation until the anticipated end date of 9/14/2027
due to malfeasance and dichotomous projections. I have not made any admission to any
charges. Please see the attached documents for details.”

8. After receiving this information, the Board initiated an investigation
concerning the disciplinary action taken by the Medical Board of California against the
Applicant, including obtaining the complaint and disciplinary order.

9. The Board’s investigation revealed that on November 9, 2022, the Medical
Board of California filed an “Accusation” against the Applicant. The Accusation alleged
that the Applicant committed “repeated negligent acts” and “gross negligence” in his care
and treatment of two adolescent patients.

10. For one 16 year-old male patient, the Medical Board of California alleged
the Applicant committed “repeated negligent acts” and “gross negligence” in his care and
treatment by prescribing psychotropic medications without adhering “to the ethical
principles of beneficence and nonmaleficence by prescribing and changing multiple
psychotropic medications over a short period of time” without substantiating the diagnoses;
by prescribing stimulant medication without considering the patient’s past and current
physical health; by failing to follow consensus guidelines for the safe initiation and
monitoring for adverse effects when prescribing antipsychotic medications; and by
initiating two antipsychotic medications simultaneously without valid justification.

11. For another 16 year-old female patient, the Medical Board of California

alleged the Applicant committed “repeated negligent acts” and “gross negligence” in his

4
care and treatment by failing to adhere to basic principles of evidence-based prescribing of
psychotropic medication; by prescribing psychotropic medication without adhering to
ethical principles of “beneficence and nonmaleficence”; by failing to follow consensus
guidelines for the safe initiation and monitoring for adverse effects when prescribing
antipsychotic medications; and by changing psychotropic medications by abruptly
discontinuing Wellbutrin, increasing Abilify and Neurontin, and adding Zoloft, Trileptal,
and Invega medications at the same time.

12. On or about August 16, 2023, the Medical Board of California and the
Applicant entered into a public “Stipulated Settlement and Disciplinary Order” effective
September 15, 2023 that resolved the Accusation. As part of the Stipulated Settlement and
Disciplinary Order, the Applicant was placed on probation for four years with an
anticipated end date of September 14, 2027. As part of the terms of probation, the Applicant
is required to complete 40 hours of continuing medical education, complete a prescribing
practices course, and complete a medical records keeping course; obtain a practice monitor;
is prohibited from supervising physician assistants and advanced practice nurses; ordered
to reimburse the Medical Board of California $16,000 for the cost of its investigation;
submit quarterly declarations of compliance with all the terms of probation; and is
prohibited from practicing telemedicine.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Investigative Findings, Panel A concludes as a matter of law
that the Applicant engaged in unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, which
constitutes a ground for action under Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), and failed to meet

5
appropriate standards as determined by appropriate peer review for the delivery of quality
medical and surgical care performed in an outpatient surgical facility, office, hospital, or
any other location in this State, which constitutes a ground for action under Health Occ.
§ 14-404(a)(22). These grounds for action under Health Occ. § 14-404(a) constitute a basis
for a disciplinary panel of the Board to deny his Application for Initial Medical License
under Health Occ. § 14-205(b)(3)(i).

ORDER

It is, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Panel A, hereby:

ORDERED that the Application for Initial Medical License of AUBREY ANCIL

KING, M.D., is DENIED; and it is further

ORDERED that this Final Order is a public document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-607,

14-411.1(b)(2) and Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6) (2021 Repl. Vol. and 2023

Supp.) Signature On File

06 [Zz O2:
Dat Christine A. F arrelly (/
Executive Director

Maryland State Board of Physicians

 

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW
Pursuant to Health Occ. § 14-408, the Applicant has the right to seek judicial review
of this Final Order. Any petition for judicial review shall be filed within thirty (30) days
from the date of mailing of this Final Order. The cover letter accompanying this Final

Order indicates the date the decision is mailed. Any petition for judicial review shall be
made as provided for in the Administrative Procedure Act, Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t
§ 10-222 and Title 7, Chapter 200 of the Maryland Rules of Procedure.

If the Applicant files a petition for judicial review, the Board is a party and should
be served with the court’s process at the following address:

Christine A. Farrelly

Executive Director

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4th Floor
Baltimore, Maryland 21215

Notice of any petition should also be sent to Board Counsel at the following address:

Noreen M. Rubin

Assistant Attorney General

Maryland Office of the Attorney General
Maryland Department of Health

300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21201
