IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

DANIEL D. METZ, P.A. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: C05820 * Case Number: 2225-0171 B
* * * * * * * * * * * * *
CONSENT ORDER

On June 4, 2025, Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B” or the “Panel”) of the Maryland
State Board of Physicians (the “Board”) charged Daniel D. Metz, P.A. (the “Respondent’”),
License Number C05820, under the Maryland Physician Assistants Act (the “Act’”), Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 15-101 et seg. (2021 Repl. Vol. & 2024 Supp.). Panel B
charged the Respondent with violating the following provisions of § 15-314 of the Act:
(a) Subject to the hearing provisions of § 15-315 of this subtitle, a
disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum,

may reprimand any physician assistant, place any physician assistant on
probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the physician assistant:

(3) Is guilty of:

(ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;
[and]

(4) Is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent[.]!
On July 23, 2025, Panel B was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for Case
Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter. Based on negotiations occurring as a result of this

DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of Findings of

' The Respondent was also charged under Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(9)(i), but this ground
was dismissed, as set forth in the Conclusions of Law.

1
Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, and Consent.
FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel B makes the following findings of fact:
I. BACKGROUND

1, At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was licensed to practice as a
physician assistant in the State of Maryland. The Respondent initially was licensed to
practice as a physician assistant in Maryland on July 8, 2015, under License Number
C05820. The Respondent’s license expires on June 30, 2025, subject to renewal.

2. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was employed as a physician
assistant at a health care facility (the “Facility”)’ located in Baltimore, Maryland.

3. On or about March 17, 2025, the Board opened an investigation of the
Respondent after receiving a Mandated 10-Day Report from the Facility stating that on
February 26, 2025, it summarily suspended the Respondent’s Facility privileges after
finding the Respondent sleeping in the dictation room and based on reasonable suspicion
that the Respondent was under the influence of alcohol while working at the Facility. The
Respondent also had a positive blood alcohol test that same day. The Respondent was
terminated from the Facility on March 12, 2025.

I. BOARD INVESTIGATION
4, As part of its investigation, the Board obtained medical and administrative

records from the Facility and other health care facilities with which the Respondent was

2 For confidentiality and privacy purposes, the names of individuals and health care facilities involved in
this case are not disclosed in this document.
employed or associated. Board staff also conducted an under-oath interview of the
Respondent.

5. The Board’s investigation revealed that on or about the morning of February
26, 2025, the Respondent appeared at the Facility at approximately 8:00 a.m. for work.
Shortly thereafter, Facility staff found the Respondent asleep on a desk in the dictation
room. At approximately 10:00 a.m., Facility staff referred the Respondent to the Facility’s
occupational health services and directed him to report there immediately. The
Respondent, however, did not appear at occupational health services until approximately
3:00 p.m. .

6. When occupational health staff asked the Respondent where he had been
since being referred at 10:00 a.m., the Respondent stated that he had been sleeping in his
vehicle. During his evaluation by occupational health staff, the Respondent acknowledged
that he had drank alcohol that day and acknowledged a significant history of alcohol abuse.
The Respondent stated that after a long period of sobriety, he began drinking alcohol again
in November 2024 due to work-related stress and pressure.

7. The Respondent agreed to undergo an alcohol blood test at occupational
health services, the results of which indicated he was under the influence with an elevated
blood alcohol content.

8. On or about May 9, 2025, the Respondent was interviewed by Board staff
under oath during which he admitted to drinking alcohol after midnight and appearing at

the Facility, on February 26, 2025, for work.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Panel B concludes as a matter of law that
the Respondent: is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation
of Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(3)(ii); and is professionally, physically or mentally
incompetent, in violation of Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(4). Panel B dismisses the charge
under Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(9)(i).

ORDER

It is thus, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Panel B, hereby:

ORDERED that Respondent is REPRIMANDED, and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent’s license to practice medicine as a physician
assistant in Maryland is SUSPENDED for a minimum period of NINE MONTHS
beginning when this Consent Order goes into effect.? During the suspension, the
Respondent shall comply with the following terms and conditions of suspension:

1. During the suspension period, the Respondent shall not:
(a) Practice medicine as a physician assistant;

(b) Take any actions to hold himself out to the public as a as a current provider
of medical services;

(c) Authorize, allow or condone the use of the Respondent’s name or provider
number by any health care practice or any other licensee or health care
provider;

(d) Function as a reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical
care facility in the State;

(e) Prescribe or dispense medications; or

3 If the Respondent’s license expires during the period of suspension, the suspension and
any conditions of suspension, will be tolled.

4
2.

(f) Perform any other act that requires an active physician assistant’s license;

and

The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation
Program (““MPRP”) as follows:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(

Within 5 business days, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule
an initial consultation for enrollment;

Within 15 business days, the Respondent shall enter into a Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with
MPRP;

>

The Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all
MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to,
the terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s)
and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully
participate and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and
screenings as directed by MPRP;

The Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and
to authorize the Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP
records and files in a public order. The Respondent shall not withdraw
the release/consent;

The Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to exchange with (1.e., disclose to and receive from)
outside entities (including all of the Respondent’s current therapists and
treatment providers) verbal and written information concerning the
Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical
records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental health
and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment records. The Respondent
shall not withdraw the release/consent;

If, upon the authorization of MPRP, the Respondent transfers to a
rehabilitation program in another state, the Respondent’s failure to
comply with any term or condition of that state’s [the. out-of-state’s]
rehabilitation program, constitutes a violation of this Consent Order. The
Respondent shall also sign any out-of-state written release/consent forms
to authorize the Board to exchange with (i.e. disclose to and receive from)

5
the out-of-state program verbal and written information concerning the
Respondent, and to ensure that the Board is authorized to receive the
medical records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental
health and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment records. The
Respondent shall not withdraw the release/consent;

(g) The Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or
conditions including terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation
of this Consent Order;

3. Within SIX MONTHS, the Respondent is required to take and successfully
complete a course in professionalism. The following terms apply:

(a) it is the Respondent’s responsibility to locate, enroll in and obtain the
disciplinary panel’s approval of the course before the course is begun;

(b) the Respondent must provide documentation to the disciplinary panel that
the Respondent has successfully completed the course;

(c) the course may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical education
credits required for license renewal;

(d) the Respondent is responsible for the cost of the course; and it is further

ORDERED that the Order for Summary Suspension of License to Practice as a
Physician Assistant, issued against the Respondent on June 3, 2025, and the order dated
June 18, 2025, continuing the summary suspension, are terminated as moot based upon the
suspension issued in this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent shall not apply for early termination of suspension;
and it is further

ORDERED that a violation of suspension constitutes a violation of this Consent

Order; and it is further
ORDERED that this Consent Order shall not be amended or modified, and future
requests for modification will not be considered by the Board or a disciplinary panel; and
it is further

ORDERED that, if MPRP finds and notifies the Board that the Respondent is safe
to return to the practice of medicine and the minimum nine months of suspension has
concluded, the Respondent may submit a written petition to the disciplinary panel to
terminate the suspension of the Respondent’s license. The Respondent may be required to
appear before the disciplinary panel to discuss his petition for termination. If the
disciplinary panel determines this it is safe for the Respondent to return to the practice of
medicine as a physician assistant, the suspension will be terminated through an order of
the disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may impose any terms and conditions it
deems appropriate on the Respondent’s return to practice, including, but not limited to,
probation and/or continuation of the Respondent’s enrollment in MPRP. If the disciplinary
panel determines that it is not safe for the Respondent to return to the practice of medicine
as a physician assistant, the suspension shall be continued through an order of the
disciplinary panel for a length of time determined appropriate by the disciplinary panel,
and the disciplinary panel may impose any additional terms and conditions it deems
appropriate; and it is further

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing
shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings

7
followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel; and if there is no genuine
dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before
a disciplinary panel; and it is further
ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel
determines that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed
by this Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend or revoke the
Respondent’s license to practice medicine as a physician assistant in Maryland. The
disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose
a civil monetary fine on the Respondent; and it is further
ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling
the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further
ORDERED that this Consent Order goes into effect on the date the Consent Order
is signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive Director
or her designee signs the Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which has
imposed the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further
ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Md. Code Ann.,

Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

sa Je Fess Signature On File

Dat “Christine A. Farrélly )
Executive Director

Maryland State Board of Physicians
CONSENT

I, Daniel Metz, P.A., acknowledge that I have consulted with counsel before signing
this Consent Order.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for
amendments or modifications to any condition.

I assert that | am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. § 15-315 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 et seq.
concerning the pending charges. I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent
Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all
other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those procedural
and substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the
disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order.

I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth
in the Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the Findings
of Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive all rights
to appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the language
and meaning of its terms.

i Signature On File
Ali / 2.02) .

Date Daniel D. Metz, P.A/
NOTARY

STATE OF ti »
CITY/COUNTY OF How Aes
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this Tsp day of

Pruget 2025, before me, a Notary Public of the foregoing

State and City/County, Daniel D. Metz, P.A., personally appeared and made oath in due

form of law that signing the foregoing Consent Order was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and notarial seal.

Aetion

Notary Public

My Commission expires: DE Cauj2a2-

FNU-AMIL KUMAR

Notary Pub

10
