Dennis Kutzer, M.D.
P.O. Box 19079
Towson, MD 21284-8079

Ifeyinwa Stitt, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Dennis Kutzer, M.D. License Number: D19332
Case Number: 2225-0164

Dear Dr. Stitt and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403, I have decided to PERMANENTLY SURRENDER my license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D19332, effective immediately. I
understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment
to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or
otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the
Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 ef seg. and other
applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Permanent Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

1 understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT,
and upon Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board received a Mandated 10-Day Report from a hospital
stating that my privileges were suspended due to concerns regarding my documentation for
outpatient work and meeting the statutory requirements when prescribing controlled
substances. The Board began an investigation of these allegations. I have decided to
surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid further
investigation and prosecution of these allegations and due to my impending retirement. |
recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure that these allegations shall be
treated as proven and that these allegations support a conclusion that I violated Health Occ.
§ 14-404 (a)(22) and (40).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the
aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that
Ifeyinwa Stitt, M.D, and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Dennis Kutzer, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2

by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any charges that
would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which
I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call
witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections provided
by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Permanent Letter of Surrender, I also
understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or
jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the
same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg., and that this Permanent Letter of Surrender
constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

1 affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to
surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substance Registration to the Office of Controlled
Substances Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of Surrender,
my license will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree that I have no
right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings
before Panel A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this
Permanent Letter of Surrender. I understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this
Permanent Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the
language, meaning and terms and effect of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I make this
decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly vours.

Signature on file

Dennis Kutzer, M.D.

Ifeyinwa Stitt, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Dennis Kutzer, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 3

NOTARY

STATE OF (Mle land

CITY/COUNTY ‘yWre CO

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this } & day of Sr __ , 2025 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Tennis | XLD., and
declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Permanent
Letter of Surrender was voluntary.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

JOSEPH A HUGGINS
Notary Public
Baltimore County

Notary Public

[a] 27

Maryland
My Commission Expires Sept. 7, 2027

ACCEPTANCE

«cin , os
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this day of 5, 2025, I,
Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of 5 ;,M.D.’s license
to practice medicine in the State of Maryland. vizer

Signature on file

Christine A. Farrelly, Rxeutive Director
Maryland Board of Physi¢ians
