Khin M. Tun, M.D.

Date: February 13, 2025

Harbhajan Ajrawat, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Khin M. Tun, M.D. License Number: D17992
Case Number: 2225-0122

Dear Dr. Ajrawat and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (‘Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2021 Repl. Vol. & 2023 Supp.), I have decided to PERMANENTLY
SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number
D17992, effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not
give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and
cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State
of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ.
§§ 14-101 et seg. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this
Permanent Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I
am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT,
and upon Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that during a Board investigation in January 2025, an evaluation
revealed that I am unable to practice medicine safely due to the existence of health
conditions. I have decided to permanently surrender my license to practice medicine in the
State of Maryland! due to my current health conditions and retirement and to avoid further
investigation and the issuance of disciplinary charges.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender due to my health conditions and retirement and
to avoid the issuance of charges.

I understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender I am waiving my
right to contest any charges that would result from Panel B’s investigative findings in a

' Upon Disciplinary Panel B’s acceptance of this permanent Letter of Surrender, I acknowledge that the terms
and conditions of the Consent Order issued by Panel B on January 27, 2025, are terminated as moot.

Harbhajan Ajrawat, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Khin M. Tun, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2

I understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender I am waiving
my right to contest any charges that would result from Panel B’s investigative findings in
a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to be represented by
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and
all other substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to
appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards
and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I also
understand that in the event I apply for licensure in any form in any other state or
jurisdiction that this Permanent Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the
Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action,
pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seq. and that this Permanent Letter of
Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to
surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of Controlled
Substances Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of
Surrender,
my license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree
that I have no right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice medicine in
the State of Maryland. I further acknowledge that the Board is not obligated to consider
any application for licensure or reinstatement that I might file at a future date.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout
proceedings before Panel B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to
signing this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I understand both the nature of Panel B’s
actions and this Permanent Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and
comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Permanent Letter of
Surrender. | make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Signature On File

Khin M-Tun, M.D.

Harbhajan Ajrawat, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Khin M. Tun, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 3

NOTARY
STATE OF [V ac ond
ciTy/COUNTY oF ali:

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this Ut day of Febuo , 2025 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Khin M. Tun, M.D., and
declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Permanent
Letter of Surrender was a voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

HARRY SCHUMAN
Notary Public ublic
Baltimore ed
Marylanc .
My COAMigammassin NEGA? -
——— 1o/0s /worF
ACCEPTANCE

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this | ay of fe thas if 2025, I,
Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PERMANENT PUBLIC SURRENDER of Khin M.

Tun, M.D.’s license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

Signature On File
istine A. Farrelly,\ Executive Dire
barylni Pho of a Se °
