David T. Isaacs

pues Dil ZZ , 2024

Harbhajan Ajrawat, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
David T. Isaacs License Number: D24289
Case Number: 2224-0034B

Dear Dr. Ajrawat and Members of the Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that I have decided to permanently SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D24289, effective
immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice
or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ.
§§ 14-101 et seq. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this
Permanent Letter of Surrender, I understand that the permanent surrender of my license
means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

T understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT,
and upon Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

T acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice and on May
6, 2024, Panel B issued disciplinary charges against me under Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(3)(ii). Specifically, Panel B alleged that I used blank prescriptions sheets from
another physician to obtain CDS medication and I wrote prescriptions for Schedule II
medications for myself and for a family member. A copy of the charges is attached as
Attachment |. I have decided to permanently surrender my license to practice medicine in
the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these disciplinary
charges.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary
charges. I acknowledge that for all purposes related to medical licensure in Maryland, the
charges will be treated as if proven.
Harbhajan Ajrawat, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: David T. Isaacs, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2

T understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender I am waiving my
right to a hearing to contest the disciplinary charges. In waiving my right to contest the
charges, I am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel at the hearing, to confront
witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and all other substantive
and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

T understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, the
National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data Bank of
this Permanent Letter of Surrender, and in response to any inquiry, that I have surrendered
my license as if it were revoked. I also understand that in the event I would apply for
licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this Permanent Letter of
Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order
that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-
101 ef seq., and that this Permanent Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by
Panel B.

I affirm that as of the date of this Permanent Letter of Surrender, I will present to
the Board my drug dispensing permit. I also affirm that I will provide access to and copies
of patient medical records in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General
article.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of Surrender,
my license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree that
Ihave no right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland. I further acknowledge that the Board is not obligated to consider any
application for licensure or reinstatement that I might file at a future date.

T acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings
before Panel B, including the right to counsel with an attorney prior to signing this
Permanent Letter of Surrender, I have consulted with an attorney before signing this letter
permanently surrendering my license to practice medicine in Maryland. I understand both
the nature of Panel B’s actions and this Permanent Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge
that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this
Permanent Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Signature On File

David T. Isaacs, M.D.

b. Physician A never ordered urine drug screening for the Respondent,
and he did not otherwise monitor the Respondent’s medication usage;

c. Physician A did not refer the Respondent to another provider to have
him or her prescribe CDS medications to the Respondent, even though
the Respondent did see other providers;

d. Prior to the Respondent’s retirement in 2019, Physician A and the
Respondent formed an agreement in which Physician A would sign
10 blank prescription sheets for the Respondent with the
understanding that the Respondent would fill the rest of the sheets out
himself, including type of Schedule II medication and dosage;

e. Physician A stated, “Those blank prescriptions did not have any
date on it; that was the key really. I would sign it so he could date it
when he needed it[;]”

f. Physician A did not see the Respondent for any medical
appointments after the Respondent’s retirement in 2019, and
Physician A “never opened his chart after that[;]”

g. In January 2020, the Respondent mailed six blank prescription
sheets to Physician A, which he asked Physician A to sign. Physician
A signed them and sent them back to the Respondent;

h. Physician A believes it “was a big mistake on [his] part” to sign
blank prescription sheets to let the Respondent fill in whatever he
wanted to fill in;

i, During the interview, Physician A reviewed copies of the original
paper prescriptions that he signed for the Respondent and the Family
Member, dated between 2014 and 2023. Physician A stated that he
did not write any of the prescriptions, but he did sign them all.
Physician A stated that the Respondent wrote all of the prescriptions;

j. The Respondent wrote prescriptions for Schedule Ii medications for
the Family Member, which Physician A signed.

IV. The Respondent’s Interview
14. On December 21, 2023, Board staff conducted an interview with the

Respondent. In the under-oath interview, the Respondent stated in part:
Physician A was the Respondent’s primary care physician from
approximately 1998 until the Respondent retired from the Medical
Practice in June 2019;

While Physician A was the Respondent’s primary care provider, he
treated the Respondent for general medical conditions, and the
appointments took place at the Medical Practice;

After the Respondent retired in June 2019, he never went back to the
Medical Practice for any examinations, evaluations or medical
appointments;

The Respondent recalls that Physician A began prescribing CDS
medications to him for medical conditions sometime around 2005 or
2010;

Prior to retiring, the Respondent “would write . . . three or four at
a time, usually a year’s dosage, and [Physician A] would review
them and sign them[;]”

Just before the Respondent retired, the Respondent wrote 12
prescriptions for Schedule II medications for himself and gave them
to Physician A for his signature;

The Respondent stated, “Now . . . the way it worked is that — when I
left . . . I wrote the prescriptions for both of these medicines, and
handed it to [Physician A]. He agreed to . . . fill them for me... when
I retired, and he signed them, and we did not date them, and I used
them .. . as needed. When the prescription would run out I would send
them to [the Pharmacy]. There was one pharmacy involved[;]”

Physician A signed the prescriptions, but he did not date them,
so that the Respondent could use them “as needed.” The Respondent
‘Gust put the date in when [he] needed it to be refilled[;]”

The Respondent told Board staff, “[W]e both agreed not to date [the
prescriptions], because . . . we weren’t sure precisely, and how long
T’d be taking them, number one, when I’d be refilling them, but the
refills were always done on a... basis of when I needed them and
when the last prescription ran out[;]”

The Respondent “spoke to [Physician A] in late 2019 about
switching the medicine” from one type of Schedule II medication to
another. Physician A agreed and the Respondent began that medicine
in approximately early 2021;

The Respondent stated, “I left the office with prescriptions, and...
when they ran out, which was in early 2021 . . . I would send
prescriptions to [Physician A’s] home, [he] would review them, and
he would send them back to me at my homej;]”

The Respondent was able to send the prescription sheets because he
took approximately 30-35 of them from the office and kept them at
his home when he retired. The prescription sheets had the names of
all three doctors from the Medical Practice on them, including
Physician A;

In April 2022, the Respondent contacted Physician A via text
message to tell him he had a problem refilling the Schedule IT
medicines even though he still had Schedule II medicines left over;

The Respondent stated, “. . . [S]ometimes I wasn’t taking the full
dose and so there may have been some left over[;]”

During the Board interview, the Respondent reviewed copies of
original paper prescriptions from the Pharmacy for Schedule II
medications that Physician A signed for the Respondent, dated
between 2014 and 2023. After reviewing them, the Respondent
stated that he wrote “[v]irtually all of them[;]

The Respondent stated that he wrote his “name, address, the
indication for the medicine, the diagnosis, then the medicine, dose,
quantity, and the instructions to take, and then [he] would give it to
[Physician A] to sign[;]”

During the Board interview, the Respondent reviewed copies of
original paper prescriptions from the Pharmacy for Schedule II
medications that Physician A signed for the Family Member, dated
between 2016 and 2019. After reviewing them, the Respondent stated
that he wrote all of the prescriptions for the Family Member, and gave
them to Physician A for his signature;

The Respondent did not initially diagnose the Family Member’s
condition, nor did he start the Family Member on the Schedule II
medication. The Respondent did not conduct any examinations or
evaluations of the Family Member. The Respondent did not maintain
a medical record for the Family Member.

Vv. Grounds for Discipline

15. The Respondent’s conduct described above constitutes, in whole or in part,
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine in violation of Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(3)(ii).

NOTICE OF POSSIBLE SANCTIONS

If, after a hearing, a disciplinary panel of the Board finds that there are grounds for
action under Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), it may impose disciplinary sanctions against
the Respondent’s license in accordance with the Board’s regulations under Md. Code Regs.
10.32.02.09 and 10.32.02.10, including revocation, suspension, reprimand, and may place
the Respondent on probation. The panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions
set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine upon the Respondent.

NOTICE OF DISCIPLINARY COMMITTEE FOR CASE RESOLUTION
CONFERENCE, PREHEARING CONFERENCE AND HEARING

A Disciplinary Committee for Case Resolution (“DCCR”) Conference in this matter

is scheduled for Wednesday, June 26, 2024, at 9:00 a.m. at the Board’s office, 4201
Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland 21215. The nature and purpose of the DCCR is
described in the attached letter to the Respondent. The Respondent must confirm their
intent to attend the DCCR in writing. The Respondent should send written confirmation of
their intent to participate in the DCCR to:

Christine A. Farrelly

Executive Director

Maryland Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4th Floor

10
Baltimore, Maryland 21215
If this case cannot be resolved at the DCCR, a prehearing conference and a hearing
in this matter will be scheduled at the Office of Administrative Hearings, 11101 Gilroy
Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031. The hearing will be conducted in accordance with
Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-201 ef seq.
(2021 Repl. Vol.).

ANTHONY G. BROWN
ATTORNEY GENERAL OF MARYLAND

Date air E. Thompson

Assistant Attorney General
Administrative Prosecutor

Maryland Office of the Attorney General
Health Occupations Prosecution and
Litigation Division

300 West Preston Street, Suite 201
Baltimore, Maryland 21201

(410) 767-1889
blair.thompson@maryland.gov

ll
Harbhajan Ajrawat, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: David T. Isaacs, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 3

NOTARY
STATE OF Misr land
CITY/COUNTY O
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this _]4 day of oN , 2024 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeated David T. Isaacs, M.D.,
and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of

Surrender was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

Notary Public
Bayley Mae Thompson

My commission expires: NOTARY PUBLIC STATE OF MARVLAND
My Commission Expires: April 23, 2028

ACCEPTANCE

(dh
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, on this 23 day of Ju » 2024, I,
Christine A. Farrelly, accept David T. Isaacs, M.D.’s PUBIC PERMANENT
SURRENDER of her license to practice medicine in the State of Marvland.

Signature On File

Christine A. Farrelly} Executive Directo
Maryland Board of Physicians

Attachment 1
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

DAVID T. ISAACS, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License No. D24289 * Case No. 2224-0034 B

& & * * * * ® * x * * % *

CHARGES UNDER THE MARYLAND MEDICAL PRACTICE ACT

Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby charges DAVID T. ISAACS, M.D. (the “Respondent”’), License No.
D24289, under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health
Occ. § 14-101 et seg. (2021 Repl. Vol.). Panel B charges the Respondent with violating the
following provision of the Act:

Health Occ. § 14-404. License denial, suspension, or revocation.

(a) In general. - Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this subtitle, a

disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of

the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee, place any licensee on
probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the licensee:

(3) Is guilty of:

(ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine[.]
One form of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine is providing self-
treatment or treatment to family members. The American Medical Association has

addressed this in a series of ethics opinions:
Opinion 8.19 (2012) — Self-Treatment or Treatment of Immediate
Family Members

Physicians generally should not treat themselves or members of their
immediate families. Professional objectivity may be compromised when an
immediate family member or the physician is the patient; the physician’s
personal feelings may unduly influence his or her professional medical
judgment, thereby interfering with the care being delivered. Physicians may
fail to probe sensitive areas when taking the medical history or may fail to
perform intimate parts of the physical examination. Similarly, patients may
feel uncomfortable disclosing sensitive information or undergoing an
intimate examination when the physician is an immediate family member.
This discomfort is particularly the case when the patient is a minor child, and
sensitive or intimate care should especially be avoided for such patients.
When treating themselves or immediate family members, physicians may be
inclined to treat problems that are beyond their expertise or training. If
tensions develop in a physician’s professional relationship with a family
member, perhaps as a result of a negative medical outcome, such difficulties
may be carried over into the family member’s personal relationship with the
physician.

Concerns regarding patient autonomy and informed consent are also relevant
when physicians attempt to treat members of their immediate family. Family
members may be reluctant to state their preference for another physician or
decline a recommendation for fear of offending the physician. In particular,
minor children will generally not feel free to refuse care from their parents.
Likewise, physicians may feel obligated to provide care to immediate family
members even if they feel uncomfortable providing care.

It would not always be inappropriate to undertake self-treatment or treatment
of immediate family members. In emergency settings or isolated settings
where there is no other qualified physician available, physicians should not
hesitate to treat themselves or family members until another physician
becomes available. In addition, while physicians should not serve as a
primary or regular care provider for immediate family members, there are
situations in which routine care is acceptable for short-term, minor problems.
Except in emergencies, it is not appropriate for physicians to write
prescriptions for controlled substances for themselves or immediate family
members.
Opinion 1.2.1 (2016) — Treating Self or Family

When the patient is an immediate family member, the physician’s personal
feelings may unduly influence his or her professional medical judgment. Or
the physician may fail to probe sensitive areas when taking the medical
history or to perform intimate parts of the physical examination. Physicians
may feel obligated to provide care for family members despite feeling
uncomfortable doing so. They may also be inclined to treat problems that
are beyond their expertise or training.

Similarly, patients may feel uncomfortable receiving care from a family
member. A patient may be reluctant to disclose sensitive information or
undergo an intimate examination when the physician is an immediate family
member. This discomfort may particularly be the case when the patient is a
minor child, who may not feel free to refuse care from a parent.

In general, physicians should not treat themselves or members of their own
families. However, it may be acceptable to do so in limited circumstances:

(a) In emergency settings or isolated settings where there is no
other qualified physician available. In such situations,
physicians should not hesitate to treat themselves or family
members until another physician becomes available.

(b) For short-term, minor problems.

When treating self or family members, physicians have a further
responsibility to:

(c) Document treatment or care provided and convey relevant
information to the patient’s primary care physician.

(d) Recognize that if tensions develop in the professional
relationship with a family member, perhaps as a result of a
negative medical outcome, such difficulties may be carried

over into the family member’s personal relationship with the
physician.

(e) Avoiding providing sensitive or intimate care especially for a
minor patient who is uncomfortable being treated by a family
member.

(fy Recognize that family members may be reluctant to state their
preference for another physician or decline a recommendation
for fear of offending the physician.
ALLEGATIONS OF FACT!
Panel B bases its charges against the Respondent on the following facts that it has
cause to believe are true:
I. Licensing and Practice Information
1. On or about September 20, 1979, the Board issued the Respondent a license
to practice medicine in Maryland, under license number D24289. The Respondent’s

Maryland license expires on or about September 30, 2024.

2. The Respondent is board certified in internal medicine. He currently has no
hospital privileges.
3. From 1996 until his retirement in 2019, the Respondent was employed at a

medical practice (the “Medical Practice”)? in Prince George’s County, Maryland.

4. The Respondent has been licensed to practice medicine in Washington, D.C.
since on or about January 26, 1979. His Washington, D.C. medical license expired on or
about December 31, 2018.

Il. Physician A’s Self-Report Letter
5. On or about September 13, 2023, the Board received a letter (the “Self-

Report Letter’) from a physician (“Physician A”) who stated that he was the Respondent’s

! The statements set forth in this document are intended to provide the Respondent with reasonable notice of the
alleged facts. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent, a complete description of the evidence, either
documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent in connection with the charges.

2 To ensure confidentiality and privacy, the names of individuals, patients and institutions involved in this case are not
disclosed in this document. The Respondent may obtain the identity of all individuals, patients, and institutions
referenced in this document from the Administrative Prosecutor.
primary care provider from around 2005 until about a year after the Respondent’s
retirement in July 2019. Physician A reported that, from 2014 to 2019, he signed “multiple
prescriptions” for Schedule II? medication’ for the Respondent “without documenting
examinations and assessments.”

6. Physician A also reported that he signed “about 10 pieces of prescription
sheets” for the Respondent “to help him out” shortly before the Respondent retired in 2019.

7, Physician A reported that, in or around May 2023, he received a request from _
a pharmacy (the “Pharmacy”) to verify a prescription for the Respondent for a Schedule IT
medication, dated May 4, 2023, that was signed by Physician A. Physician A reported that
he did not issue the prescription.

I. Investigation

8. After reviewing Physician A’s Self-Report Letter, the Board initiated an
investigation.

9. On September 21, 2023, Board staff issued a subpoena duces tecum to the
Prescription Drug Monitoring Program (“PDMP”) for a computer-generated printout of all
controlled substances written by the Respondent from January 1, 2013 to present.

10. On September 25, 2023, the Board received the Respondent’s PDMP report.

The PDMP report showed that. on or about March 19. 2013. the Respondent wrote a

> The U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration classifies controlled dangerous substances (“CDS”) into five (5)
categories or “schedules” based upon the drug’s acceptable medical use and its potential for abuse and/or dependency.
Schedule I drugs have a high potential for abuse and/or dependency while Schedule V drugs have the lowest potential
for abuse and/or dependence.

* To ensure confidentiality and privacy, the specific names of the medications are not disclosed in this document. The
Respondent knows the specific names of the medications discussed herein.
prescription for himself for a Schedule IV medication. Further, on or about April 5, 2013,
the Respondent wrote a prescription for the Family Member for a Schedule II medication.
Both of the prescriptions were dispensed by the Pharmacy.

11. By letter dated September 25, 2023, Board staff informed the Respondent
that the Board opened a full investigation based on allegations that he used blank
prescription sheets from Physician A to obtain CDS medications. Board staff also requested
that the Respondent provide a written response to the allegations.

12. By letter dated October 4, 2023, the Respondent provided his written
response in which he stated in part:

a. Physician A was the Respondent’s primary care provider who
prescribed the Respondent “longer-acting [Schedule II] medications

along with shorter acting [medications;]”

b. After the Respondent retired from the Medical Practice in 2019,
Physician A continued prescribing him medications;

c. The Respondent stated, “All of [Physician A’s] prescriptions
included my personal patient information, diagnosis, medicine dose,
quantity, directions for use, and his signature. The date, however,
was left blank. I would fill in the date when I submitted the
prescription for quarterly filling at one pharmacy - [the Pharmacy.]”

13. On December 18, 2023, Board staff conducted an under-oath interview with
Physician A. Physician A stated in part:

a. Approximately every three months between 2014 and 2019,
the Respondent came into the Medical Practice with prescription
sheets that he had already filled out, and asked Physician A to sign
them. The Respondent determined the type of Schedule IT
medication and the dosage for himself. Physician A briefly
reviewed the prescriptions and then signed them. Physician A
did not document these prescriptions in the Respondent’s chart;
