Peter V. Blaes, M.D.

Mark D. Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Peter V. Blaes, M.D. License Number: D0038700
Case Number: 2225-0216

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403, I have decided to PERMANENTLY SURRENDER my license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D0038700, effective immediately. I
understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment
to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or
otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the
Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 ef seg. and other
applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Permanent Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT,
and upon Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board received multiple complaints between November
2025 and December 2025 from patients expressing difficulty with obtaining their medical
records from my office. During the course of a subsequent Board investigation of these
allegations, I informed the Board that all patient records had been shredded.

I further acknowledge that the Board received an additional complaint in January
2025 from a healthcare practitioner alleging that the patients transferred from my office
were on inappropriate and dangerous medication regimens that require extensive tapering
of benzodiazepines.

I have decided to permanently surrender my license to practice medicine in the
State of Maryland to avoid further investigation. | recognize that, for all purposes relevant
to medical licensure that these allegations support a conclusion that I violated Health Occ.

Mark D. Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Peter V. Blaes, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2

§14-404(a)(3)(ii) (is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine); (13) (On
proper request, and in accordance with the provisions of Title 4, Subtitle 3 of the Health
General Article, fails to provide details of a patient’s medical record to the patient, another
physician or hospital) and (43) (Except for the licensure process described under Subtitle
3A of this title, violates any provision of this title, any rule or regulation adopted by the
Board, or any State or federal law pertaining to the practice of medicine) with respect to a
violation of Health Occ. §14-316(f)(1) (Each licensee shall notify the secretary of the
Board in writing of any change in the licensee’s name or address within 60 days after the
change).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution
of the aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand
that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any
charges that would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary
hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give
testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural
protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

l understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. | also
understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or
jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the
same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg., and that this Permanent Letter of Surrender
constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article, to the extent that such
medical records currently exist. I also agree to surrender my Controlled Dangerous
Substance Registration to the Office of Controlled Substances Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of Surrender,
my license will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree that I have no
right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings
before Panel A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this
Permanent Letter of Surrender. I understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this
Permanent Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the
Mark D. Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Peter V. Blaes, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 3

language, meaning and terms and effect of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I make this
decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

, Peter V. Blaes.M.D.
Signature on file

NOTARY

STATE OF Delaware

CITY/COUNTY OF USS eX

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this lb day of Jul V_., 2025, before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Peter V. Blaes, M.D., and
declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Permanent
Letter of Surrender was voluntary.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

Notary Public

_ VICKY L. HATTON
My commission expires: Notary Public

State of Delaware

My Commission Expires
April 21, 2028

ACCEPTANCE

oh
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this 29 | day of Spry , 2025, I,
Christine A. Farrelly, accept the permanent PUBLIC SURRENDER of Peter V Blaes,
M.D.’s license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

Signature on file

Christine A. Farrell, Exécutive Director
Maryland Board of Physiciai

