IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

DANIEL D. DIETRICK, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: D45331 * Case Number: 7724-0073

* * * * * * * * * * & x x

ORDER TERMINATING SUSPENSION AND IMPOSING PROBATION

PROCEDURAL AND FACTUAL HISTORY

On November 22, 2023, Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A” or the “Panel”) of the
Maryland State Board of Physicians (“the Board”) summarily suspended the Maryland
medical license of Daniel D. Dietrick, M.D, On January 11, 2024, the Panel affirmed the
summary suspension. On April 3, 2024, Dr. Dietrick and the Panel entered into a Consent
Order. Under the terms of the Consent Order, Panel A suspended Dr. Dietrick’s medical
license for a minimum period of nine months, required Dr. Dietrick to complete a course
in professionalism and required Dr. Dietrick to enroll in the Maryland Professional
Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) with monitoring and quarterly reports from MPRP.'
The Consent Order provided that, after nine months, if MPRP determined that Dr. Dietrick
is safe to practice medicine and has complied with MPRP’s recommendations and
requirements, he could petition Panel A to terminate the suspension and that, if the

suspension is terminated, Panel A could impose conditions on his return to practice.

' A copy of the April 3, 2024 Consent Order is incorporated by reference and available on
request.
PETITION FOR TERMINATION OF SUSPENSION

On February 6, 2025, Dr. Dietrick petitioned the Board for the termination of his
suspension. Dr. Dietrick completed the coursework required by the Consent Order. The
Board also received, as part of his Petition, a report from MPRP, on February 7, 2025, that
stated, “[d]uring his participation Dr. Dietrick has been fully cooperative with his MPRP
rehabilitation plan and all recommendations.” Ultimately, MPRP concluded, “[o]ur full
clinical team has discussed this case extensively and we endorse his return to clinical
practice. Furthermore, we recommend that Dr. Dietrick continue all elements of his current
rehabilitation program... .” On March 14, 2025, the Administrative Prosecutor filed a
response, recommending terminating the suspension and imposing probation with the
condition that he continue his participation in MPRP. On April 9, 2025, Panel A convened
as a Reinstatement Inquiry Panel, with Dr. Dietrick and an Administrative Prosecutor for
the State, for the Panel to consider Dr. Dietrick’s petition to terminate the suspension of
his license.

CONSIDERATION OF PETITION

Panel A finds that Dr. Dietrick has complied with the terms of the Consent Order
and, based on the recommendations and evaluations presented, is safe to return to the
practice of medicine. The Panel believes that Dr. Dietrick should remain on probation and
enrolled in MPRP for at least three years from the date of this Order Terminating
Suspension and Imposing Probation (“Order”) and until his successful discharge from

MPRP.
ORDER

It is, thus, by Panel A, hereby

ORDERED that the suspension imposed, under the April 3, 2024, Consent Order,

is TERMINATED, and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Dietrick is placed on PROBATION for a minimum period of

THREE YEARS and until he is successfully discharged from the Maryland Professional

Rehabilitation Program (MPRP).? During the probationary period, Dr. Dietrick shall

comply with the following probationary terms and conditions:

1.

Dr. Dietrick shall remain enrolled in the Maryland Professional
Rehabilitation Program and shall:

(a) continue his Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP or be entered into an amended or new
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan as
determined by MPRP;

(b) fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP’s referrals, rules,
and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and conditions of
the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan
entered into with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all
therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP;

(c) sign and update the written release/consent forms requested by the Board
and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to make
verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board to
disclose relevant information from MPRP records and files in a public order.
Dr. Dietrick shall not withdraw his release/consent;

(d) sign and update the written release/consent forms as requested by the
Board and MPRP. Dr. Dietrick shall sign the release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board,
including disclosure of any and all MPRP records and files possessed by

? If Dr. Dietrick’s license expires while he is on probation, the probationary period and any
probationary conditions will be tolled.
MPRP. Dr. Dietrick shall also sign any written release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside
entities (including all of Dr. Dietrick’s current therapists and treatment
providers) verbal and written information concerning Dr. Dietrick and to
ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical records of Dr.
Dietrick, including, but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol
treatment records. Dr. Dietrick shall not withdraw his release/consent;
AND IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that if, upon the authorization of MPRP, Dr.
Dietrick transfers to a rehabilitation program in another state, his failure to comply with
any term or condition of the out-of-state’s rehabilitation program constitutes a violation of
this Order. Dr. Dietrick shall also sign any out-of-state written release/consent forms to
authorize the Board to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) the out-of-state
program verbal and written information concerning Dr. Dietrick, and to ensure that the
Board is authorized to receive the medical records of him, including, but not limited to,
mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment records. Dr. Dietrick shall not
withdraw the release/consent; and it is further
ORDERED that, after a minimum period of THREE YEARS, if Dr. Dietrick has
complied with all terms and conditions of probation, and upon MPRP’s determination that
he can safely practice without additional monitoring, Dr. Dietrick may submit a written
petition to the Board requesting termination of probation. After consideration of the
petition, the probation may be terminated through an order of Panel A. Dr. Dietrick may
be required to appear before Panel A to discuss his petition for termination of probation or
the Panel may choose to administratively terminate the probation. Panel A will grant the

petition to terminate the probation if Dr. Dietrick has complied with all of the probationary

terms and conditions, MPRP determines that Dr. Dietrick can safely practice without
additional monitoring, and there are no pending complaints related to the charges; and it is
further

ORDERED that, if Dr. Dietrick allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition of probation or this Order, Dr. Dietrick shall be given notice and an opportunity
for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before
an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings and, if there is no
genuine dispute as to a material fact, Dr. Dietrick shall be given a show cause hearing
before Panel A; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if Panel A determines that Dr.
Dietrick has failed to comply with any term or condition of probation or this Order, Panel
A may reprimand Dr. Dietrick, place Dr. Dietrick on probation with appropriate terms and
conditions, or suspend his license with appropriate conditions, or revoke Dr. Dietrick’s
license to practice medicine in Maryland. Panel A may, in addition to one or more of the
sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine upon Dr. Dietrick; and it is further

ORDERED that there shall be no early termination of probation; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Dietrick is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and conditions of this Order; and it is further

ORDERED that any time period prescribed in this Order begins when this Order
goes into effect. This Order goes into effect upon the signature of the Board’s Deputy

Director, who signs on behalf of Panel A; and it is further
ORDERED that this Order is a public document, pursuant to Md. Code Ann.,

Health Oce. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

Aeelseos Signature on file

Date Ellen Douglas Smith, Deputy Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians
