Walter Gianelle, M.D.

Mark D. Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Walter Gianelle, M.D. License Number: D44413
Case Number: 7723-0042 & 2224-0106

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health. Occ.”)
§14-403, I have decided to PERMANENTLY SURRENDER my license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D44413, effective immediately. |
understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment
to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or
otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in
the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 ef seg. and other
applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Permanent Letter of
Surrender, | understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

1 understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT,
and upon Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that on December 15, 2022, the Panel issued an Order to
Terminate Suspension and Impose Probation, which placed me on probation for a
minimum of three years with terms and conditions, which included compliance with all
of the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”)’s referrals, rules, and
requirements, 1 acknowledge that I was discharged by MPRP for cause on May 13, 2024
for failing to comply with MPRP’s treatment recommendations and that this discharge
constituted a violation of the December 15, 2022 Order to Terminate Suspension and
Impose Probation.

I further acknowledge that the Board received a Mandated 10-Day Report from a
health care facility stating that 1 was terminated on January 22, 2024 for billing for
services under the name of a different provider.

 
Mark D. Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Walter Gianelle, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2

I have decided to permanently surrender my license to practice medicine in the
State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of the allegations, my
violation of the December 15, 2022 Order to Terminate Suspension and Impose
Probation, and due to my retirement. I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical
licensure that the allegations regarding my billing for services under the name of a
different provider shall be treated as proven and that these allegations support a
conclusion that I violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a) (3)(ii) (unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine), (11) (willfully makes or files a false report or record in the practice
of medicine).

I wish to make it clear that | have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and
prosecution of the aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations.
| understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender | am waiving my right
to contest any charges that would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a formal
evidentiary hearing at which | would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses,
to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and
procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards,
and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. | also
understand that in the event | would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or
jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the
same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg., and that this Permanent Letter of Surrender
constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

| affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to
surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substance Registration to the Office of Controlled
Substances Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of
Surrender, my license will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree that
I have no right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice medicine in the
State of Maryland.

T acknowledge that | may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, | wish to make clear that | have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout
proceedings before Panel A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to
signing this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I understand both the nature of Panel A’s
actions and this Permanent Letter of Surrender fully. | acknowledge that | understand and
Mark D. Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Pane! A
RE: Walter Gianelle, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 3

comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Permanent Letter of
Surrender. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Vervhaly Yous. .
Signature On File

Walter Gianelle, M.D.

NOTARY

STATE OF MTCC
CITY/COUNTY OF G3ICOMIC. 0)

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this day of INE , 2024 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Walter Gianelle, M.D.,

and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this
Permanent Letter of Surrender was voluntary.

 

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

 

ere
swe AY . Shy te,

s
a
oN
Ss
%,

My commission expires: }O{ ¥ jz

Ka

 
Mark D. Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Walter Gianelle, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 4

ACCEPTANCE

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this 20 aay ond , 2024, I,
Christine A. Farrelly, accept the permanent PUBLIC SURRENDER of Walter Gianelle,
M.D.’s license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

 

e e
Signature On File
Christine A. Farfelly, Ekecutive Directo,
Maryland Board of PhySicjans
