IN THE MATTER OF
DANIEL D. DIETRICK, M.D.
Respondent

License Number: D45331 .

* * * * *

On December 1, 2023, Disciplinary Panel A of the Maryland State Board of
Physicians (the "Board") charged DANIEL D. DIETRICK, M.D. (the “Respondent”),
License Number D45331, under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), codified

at Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §§ 14-101 et seq. (2021 Repl. Vol. & 2023

Supp.).

Specifically, Disciplinary Panel A charged the Respondent with violating the

BEFORE THE
MARYLAND STATE
BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

Case Number: 2224-0048 A

* * * * *

CONSENT ORDER

following provision of the Act under Health Occ. § 14-404:

(a) In general. -- Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of
the quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee,
place any licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the

licensee:

(3) Is guilty of:

(ii) | Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;

[and]

(4) _ Is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent; [and]

(9) Provides professional services:
NOTARY
STATE OF

CITY/COUNTY OF

A soyor (be —
1 HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 2°" day of ,

2024, before me, a Notary Public of the State and County aforesaid, personally appeared
Daniel D. Dietrick, M.D., and gave oath in due form of law that the foregoing Consent

Order was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS, my hand and Notary Seal.

  

Notary Public

  

My Commission Expires: Kt] O25

Notary Public State of Florida

ey Kyle Morgan
‘ My Commission HH 089467
VE

Expires 02/04/2025

 

11
@) ~~ While under the influence of alcohol[.]
On March 13, 2024, Panel A was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for Case
. Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter. Based on negotiations occurring as a result of this
DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of Findings of
Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, and Consent.
FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel A finds the following:
I. BACKGROUND

1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland. The Respondent initially was licensed to practice
medicine in Maryland on November 24, 1993, under License Number D45331. The
Respondent’s license expires on September 30, 2024, subject to renewal.

2. The Respondent is board-certified in Urology.

3. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was employed as a physician at
a health care facility (the “Facility”)! located in Towson, Maryland.

4, On or about October 5, 2023, the Board opened an investigation of the
Respondent after receiving a Mandated 10-Day Report from the Facility stating that on

September 13, 2023, it summarily suspended the Respondent’s Facility privileges based

' To ensure confidentiality, the names of individuals, hospitals and healthcare facilities involved in this case
are not disclosed in this Consent Order.
on the Respondent testing positive for an elevated blood alcohol level on August 28, 2023,
after performing a procedure on a patient.
II. BOARD INVESTIGATION

5. As part of its investigation, the Board obtained medical and administrative
records from the Facility and other health care facilities with which the Respondent was
employed or associated. The Board also obtained a written response from the Respondent.

6. The Board’s investigation revealed that on or about August 28, 2023, the
Respondent was scheduled to perform a medical procedure on a patient at the Facility at
9:00 a.m. By 9:40 a.m. the Respondent had not arrived at the Facility, which prompted a
staff member to contact him. The Respondent finally arrived at the Facility at 9:53 a.m.

7. Upon the Respondent’s arrival, Facility staff members observed the
Respondent to be disheveled with the bottom of his pant leg tucked into his sock, his hair
unkempt and his shirt stained with deodorant. Facility staff members noticed the
Respondent’s speech was disjointed and slow. The Respondent proceeded to perform the
scheduled procedure and was observed to be “hyperfocused on each step of the procedure,
as if he was trying to remember what was to come next.” The Respondent performed the
procedure without any issues, but a Facility staff observed him to be rude when speaking
with the patient.

8. The Facility administrative staff decided not to allow the Respondent to
perform anymore procedures after the first patient. While Facility staff members were
speaking with the Respondent about his behavior in a consulting room, the Respondent

began retching and vomiting.
9. At approximately 1:00 p.m., the Respondent was driven by a Facility staff
member to another health care facility where he submitted a blood test for toxicology
screening. The result of the toxicology screening indicated that the Respondent was
impaired with an elevated blood alcohol content.

10. On or about October 20, 2023, the Respondent submitted a written response
to the Board in which he admitted to drinking more alcohol than he thought the night before
the stated incident on August 28, 2023, and also admitted that his blood alcohol level was
elevated on that date.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Panel A concludes as a matter of law that
the Respondent is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation
of § 14-404(a)(3)(ii) of the Health Occupations Article; is professionally, physically, or
mentally incompetent, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(4); and provided
professional services while under the influence of alcohol, in violation of Health Occ. §
14-404(a)(9)(i).

ORDER
It is thus by a majority of a quorum of Disciplinary Panel A of the Board hereby:

ORDERED, that the Order for Summary Suspension of License to Practice
Medicine dated November 22, 2023 and the order affirming the summary suspension are
TERMINATED as moot; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is REPRIMANDED; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent’s license to practice medicine is SUSPENDED
for a minimum period of NINE (9) MONTHS; and it is further
ORDERED that during the suspension period, the Respondent shall not:
i. Practice medicine;

ii. Take any actions after the effective date of this Order to hold himself or
herself out to the public as a current provider of medical services;

iii. Authorize, allow or condone the use of the Respondent’s name or
provider number by any health care practice or any other licensee or health
care provider;

iv. Function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other
medical care facility in the State;

v. Prescribe or dispense medications; or

vi. Perform any other act that requires an active medical license; and it is
further

ORDERED, that Respondent shall comply with the following terms and conditions
of the SUSPENSION:

i. The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation
Program (MPRP) as follows:

1. Within 5 business days, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to
schedule an initial consultation for enrollment;

2. Within 15 business days, the Respondent shall enter into a
Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

3. The Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with
all MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not
limited to, the terms and conditions of the Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s)
entered with MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with
all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by
MPRP;
iil,

4. The Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent
forms requested by the Board and MPRP, including
release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to make verbal and
written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board to
disclose relevant information from MPRP records and files in a
public order. The Respondent shall not withdraw his
release/consent;

5. The Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms
to authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive
from) outside entities (including all of the Respondent’s current
therapists and treatment providers) verbal and written information
concerning the Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is authorized
to receive the medical records of the Respondent, including, but
not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and
treatment records. The Respondent shall not withdraw his
release/consent; and

6. The Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms
or conditions including terms or conditions of the Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s)
constitutes a violation of this Consent Order.

MPRP will arrange for any evaluation(s) that MPRP determines are
necessary to assess the Respondent’s safety to return to the practice of
medicine. The Respondent shall submit to the evaluation(s) as directed
by MPRP.

The Respondent shall successfully complete MPRP and be found safe to
practice by MPRP.

Within SIX (6) MONTHS, the Respondent is required to take and
successfully complete a course in professionalism. The following terms
apply:

1. it is the Respondent’s responsibility to locate, enroll in and obtain the
disciplinary panel’s approval of the course before the course is begun;

2. the disciplinary panel will not accept a course taken over the internet;
3. the Respondent must provide documentation to the disciplinary panel
that the Respondent has successfully completed the course;

4. the course may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical education
credits required for license renewal;

5. the Respondent is responsible for the cost of the course.
IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that if, upon the authorization of MPRP, the
Respondent transfers to a rehabilitation program in another State, his failure to comply
with any term or condition of the out-of-state’s rehabilitation program, constitutes a
violation of this Order. The Respondent shall also sign any out-of-state written
release/consent forms to authorize the Board to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive
from) the out-of-state program verbal and written information concerning the Respondent,
and to ensure that the Board is authorized to receive the medical records of the Respondent,
including, but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment
records. The Respondent shall not withdraw the release/consent; and it is further

ORDERED that if MPRP finds and notifies the Board that the Respondent is safe
to return to the practice of medicine and the minimum nine (9) months suspension has
concluded, the Respondent may submit a written petition to the disciplinary panel to
terminate the suspension of the Respondent’s license. The Respondent may be required to
appear before the disciplinary panel to discuss his or her petition for termination. If the
disciplinary panel determines that it is safe for the Respondent to return to the practice of
medicine, the suspension will be terminated through an order of the disciplinary panel, and
the disciplinary panel may impose any terms and conditions it deems appropriate on the
Respondent’s return to practice, including, but not limited to, probation and/or continuation
of the Respondent’s enrollment in MPRP. If the disciplinary panel determines that it is not
safe for the Respondent to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension shall be

continued through an order of the disciplinary panel for a length of time determined by the
disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may impose any additional terms and
conditions it deems appropriate; and it is further

ORDERED that a violation of the suspension constitutes a violation of the Consent
Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent shall not apply for early termination of the
suspension; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If the disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute as
to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of
Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel;
and if the disciplinary panel determines there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact,
the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is
further

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this
Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend with

appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke the Respondent’s license to practice medicine
in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set
forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on the Respondent; and it is further
ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent
Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive
Director or her designee signs the Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which
has imposed the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further
ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-

607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

Signature On File

0 4/02/2024
Dat Christine A. Farrefly} Ex e Directo
Maryland State Board of\Phygicians
CONSENT

I, Daniel D. Dietrick, M.D., acknowledge that I have consulted with counsel before signing
this document.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and conditions
and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for amendments
or modifications to any condition.

l assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md. Code
Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 ef seg. concerning
the pending charges. I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered after the
conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to counsel,
to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all other
substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those procedural and
substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the
disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order.

I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth in the
Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the Findings of
Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive all rights to
appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the language and

meaning of its terms. Signature On File
2:26-%o2%
Date Daniel D. Dietrick, M.D.

10
