Date: June 20 Z02Y

Mark D. Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

 

Re: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Julio Ramirez, M.D., License Number: D53645
Case Numbers: 2224-0040 & 2224-0091

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403, I have decided to permanently SURRENDER my license to practice medicine
in the State of Maryland, License Number D53645, effective immediately. | understand
that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any
individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise
engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland
Medical Practice Act (the “Act’’), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 ef seg. and other applicable laws.
In other words, as of the effective date of this Permanent Letter of Surrender, | understand
that the permanent surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as an
unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT,
and upon Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board received two complaints alleging that I
inappropriately touched the mothers of two patients and that the Board initiated an
investigation into the allegations. The Board also issued a Summary Suspension of my
license on or about April 30, 2024. I also acknowledge that the Board initiated an
investigation of my practice and my prescribing of ADHD medications. On May 24, 2024,
Panel A issued disciplinary charges against me under Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i), (ii),
(22), (40) as well as the Board’s sexual misconduct regulations, in violation of Health Occ.
§1-212. The charges are attached as EXHIBIT A. I have decided to permanently
surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland due to my retirement
and to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these disciplinary charges.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary
charges. I acknowledge that for all purposes related to medical licensure in Maryland, the
charges will be treated as if proven.
IV. Investigation

7. As part of the investigation, the Board, inter alia, conducted interviews
with Complainant 1, Complainant 2, the Respondent, and current and former employees
of the Respondent.

Interview with Complainant 1

8. On or about October 27, 2023, the Board conducted an interview with
Complainant | who stated the following:

a. On September 28, 2023, Complainant 1 took her child to see the
Respondent due to her child having an infected toenail.

b. The Respondent came into the room and touched Complainant
1’s shoulder “which he always does.” Complainant 1 stated she
always felt “super uncomfortable but nothing to where [she] felt
like it needed to be reported. It was just kind of like that weird
feeling.”

c. The Respondent positioned himself in between Complainant 1’s
legs and “with his right hand he started to grope [her] left breast.
Then he put his left hand and like fully palmed [her] vagina. And
the only other way | can explain it is he started to rub it with his
thumb.”

d. The Respondent “had positioned himself: so close to [her]

between [her] legs that when he was fondling [her] with his left
hand, [her child], even though [her child] was right next to [her],
couldn’t see it.”

e. While the Respondent briefly examined her child’s foot, “he
moved his left hand up and positioned it under [Complainant 1’s]
butt where [she] was partially sitting on it.”

f. The Respondent left the exam room after “mention{ing]
something about an antibiotic for [Complainant 1’s child].”
Complainant 1 composed herself in the exam room after
becoming emotional and crying. She then left the exam room and
reported the incident to a current member of the Respondent’s
staff (“Employee 1”). |

g. Complainant 1 spoke with Employee 1 in another exam room.
After Complainant 1 informed Employee 1! about the incident,
Employee 1 told Complainant 1 to “wait there” in the exam
room. Complainant 1 walked out after Employee 1 left the room
and she “drove directly to the police station” where she reported
the incident.

Respondent’s Written Response to the Complaint
9. In his written response to the allegations from the Complaint, the

Respondent, among other things, stated that he had no idea why Complainant 1
complained about their interaction at her child’s visit and that he was “quiet [sic]
surprised and confused by her allegations.”
Employee Interviews Regarding Sexual Misconduct/Inappropriate Touching
10. On or about February 13, 2024, the Board conducted an interview with a
former employee of the Respondent (“Employee 2”) who stated the following:
a. Employee 2 worked for the Respondent for approximately one
year beginning in or around 2015. Employee 2 reached out to the
Respondent’s office in or around July 2022 for an employment
opportunity. Employee 2 was invited for an in-person interview
shortly thereafter.
b. During the re-hire interview in 2022, the Respondent began
talking about his personal life and his marital status. The
Respondent also mentioned that he had a new car and asked her if
she wanted to take a ride. Employee 2 agreed, thinking that the
ride would be around the business park where the office was
located. When Employee 2 noticed they were leaving
Chestertown, she asked him where they were going and the
Respondent stated he was “going to show [her] where he lived.”
Employee 2 told him no and that she did not have much time but

the Respondent said “it’s going to be really quick, really quick.”
c. The Respondent gave Employee 2 a tour of his home. At the end
of the tour while standing near the Respondent’s garage, the
Respondent “put himself against, like my back area, so my butt, I
guess. And then I was shocked, and I was like, what are you
doing? He was like, oh, oh. I though we were going to — I’m like
no. I didn’t even agree to come to your house.” When the
Respondent “pushed his body against [Employee 2], he “lifted
my dress up and grabbed my butt. And I just was taken really
surprised, and I jumped up.” The Respondent drove them back to
the office shortly thereafter.

d. After Employee 2 started working for the Respondent in 2022,
Employee 2 would go to the Respondent’s office to talk with him
about a patient. The Respondent would tell her to come inside, sit
down, and the Respondent would close the door “every single
time.” The Respondent tried to kiss her “one or two times” when
she went to his office to speak with him about a patient. The
Respondent would also rub his arm on her leg in his office.
Employee 2 stated, “If he wasn’t trying to kiss me, he would try
to do that.”

e. Another employee (“Employee 3”) told Employee 2 that the

Respondent had also tried kissing her.
f. Employee 2 worked for the Respondent for approximately one
month in 2022. After she left this employment, the Respondent
would communicate with her on WhatsApp.* When Employee 2
would post pictures of herself on WhatsApp, the Respondent
would “comment with, like, emojis, like, with those heart emojis
and everything like that.”

11. On or about March 18, 2024, the Board conducted an interview with a
former employee of the Respondent (“Employee 3”) who stated the following:

a. Employee 3 was a patient of the Respondent as. a child,
Employee 3’s child was also a patient of the Respondent.

b. Employee 3 was employed by the Respondent in or around
October 2021 for approximately three months at the Chestertown
office.

c. While in the Respondent’s office to discuss patient care, the
Respondent “would go to answer me, and like, just start smiling
and, like, whispering in my ear. And he would grab my butt.”
The Respondent would “like, whisper in my ear, like he was
trying to hug me or, like, almost kiss me or something. And I

would just hurry up and leave.” Employee 3 realized that the

4 WhatsApp is a social messaging application that allows users to make video and voice calls, and send
images, audio, video, etc.
Respondent touching her was not an accident when it happened
two more times.

. After the first time that the Respondent touched her, Employee 3
mentioned it to Employee 2 who said, “He did it to me as well.”
Employee 2 said that while she was at the Respondent’s house,
she “had a dress on or something, and he put his — put his hand
up her dress, made her feel uncomfortable and she left.”

. The Respondent would also hug Employee 3 and get close to her.
“[W]hen he would grab my butt, like, he would stand, like, in
front of me, and we would be, like, face to face, like we were
having a conversation. And then he would get closer to me, and
then take one hand around my body and grab, like, my butt.”
Sometimes when Employee 3 was standing next to the
Respondent, he would also put his arm “over my shoulder and
kind of like hug me that way, or you know, pull me closer to him
that way, if that makes sense.”

The first time that the Respondent touched Employee 3, she “was
just like, what the f---? And I walked out.” When it happened a
second time, “I put, like, my fingers like, in his chest, like, you

know, to like back him up, you know.”
12. On or about February 13, 2024, the Board conducted an interview with a
former employee of the Respondent (“Employee 4”) who stated the following:

a. Employee 4 was employed by the Respondent from
approximately July 2016 through June 2019. Employee 4 worked
at both the Chestertown and Queenstown office locations.

b. Employee 4 “had a few times that J felt a little bit uncomfortable
by [the Respondent’s] gestures.” These gestures involved the
Respondent hugging her in his office. Employee 4 “... asked the
other staff if, like, [the Respondent], does he do that to you guys
as well? If they say yes, then like I said, oh, then it must be really
just cultural stuff. But they said no, So that’s when I felt
uncomfortable, and I told them.”

c. Employee 4 told the Respondent that she was not comfortable
with him giving her hugs. When she told him “.., he was not
happy. To me, he seemed a little bit offended because probably
he didn’t — it was impromptu, and maybe it was just casual for
him.”

13. On or about March 22, 2024, the Board conducted an interview with a
former employee of the Respondent (“Employee 5”) who stated the following:
a. Employee 5 was employed by the Respondent from on or around

March 2021 through January 2022 at the Chestertown office
location.

. Employee 5 worked with Employee 3 and would usually leave a
few minutes before Employee 3. One day when Employee 5 was
about to leave, Employee 3 asked Employee 5 to wait for her.
Employee 3 asked Employee 5 to wait for her on multiple other
occasions because she did not “want to be left [there] alone with
[the Respondent].” Employee 5 questioned Employee 3 about the
situation and Employee 3 said “...1 don’t want it going around,
but she did mention that [the Respondent] had touched her
bottom.” Employee 3 did not know if it was an accident but “...
she was just caught off guard that she didn’t even know what to
think of that circumstance.”

. Employee 3 asked Employee 5 if the Respondent had ever
touched her. Employee 5 asked Employee 3 why she had asked
that question and Employee 3 “... said that he had touched her
bottom again.” Employee 3 told her “... I didn’t know how to
react. She was like, I just felt so mad. She was like, I feel so
violated.”

. Employee 2 told Employee 5 that the Respondent took Employee
2 to his house after her interview. The Respondent said he

wanted to show Employee 2 his car and while they were looking
at his car, the Respondent told Employee 2 to sit in the car.
Employee 2 sat in the car and the Respondent drove them to his
house. Employee 2 also told Employee 5 that the Respondent “...
lifted up [Employee 2’s] dress and said, can I, and he was going
to put his hand up there. And she said she immediately said no
and that she — they left.”

Interview with Respondent

14. On or about March 28, 2024, the Board conducted an interview with the

Respondent who stated, among other things, the following:

a. The Respondent admitted that a hug occurred between him and
Complainant 1 but stated that Complainant 1 initiated the
contact.

b. The Respondent admitted that he drove Employee 2 to his house
in his car and that he showed her around his home. The
Respondent stated that he did not see a problem with driving
Employee 2 to his home at that time, but he now sees how it
could be a professional boundary issue.

c. After being confronted with screenshots of WhatsApp
communications with Employee 2, the Respondent admitted that
he acknowledged the photos of Employee 2 on WhatsApp when

he “put those expressions but that’s it.”
Interview with Complainant 2
15. On or about May 7, 2024, the Board conducted an interview with
Complainant 2 who stated the following:

a. The Respondent served as the primary pediatric physician to her
three children beginning sometime in or around 2003 or 2004
until sometime in or around 2020 or 2021.

b. Sometime in or around 2020 or 2021, Complainant 2 took her
child to see the Respondent to discuss options for medical
treatment.

c. The Respondent came into the exam room where Complainant 2
and her child were waiting. Complainant 2 and the Respondent
began discussing the reason for the visit when the Respondent
“proceeded to ask [Complainant 2] to step out of the room to talk
to him. And he took [Complainant 2] around the corner to — I
want to say it was like a supply closet, maybe with some office
stuff in it. It was definitely not a room that I had ever been to
when I’ve been there.”

d. While in the supply closet, the Respondent began discussing
Complainant 2’s child. He then told Complainant 2 that “it would
be okay. And he leaned in to give [Complainant 2] a hug. And he

— and I, awkwardly, kind of just patted his back a little bit. And
Mark D. Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Julio Ramirez, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2

I understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender I am waiving my
right to a hearing to contest the disciplinary charges. In waiving my right to contest the
charges, I am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel at the hearing, to confront
witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and all other substantive
and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I also
understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or
jurisdiction that this Permanent Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the
Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant
to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg. and that this Permanent Letter of Surrender
constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

| affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to
surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of Controlled
Substances Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of Surrender,
my license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, | agree that
I have no right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings
before Panel A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this
Permanent Letter of Surrender. | have consulted with and was represented by an attorney
prior to signing this letter permanently surrendering my license to practice medicine in
Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Permanent Letter of
Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning
and terms and effect of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly
and voluntarily.

_——Very truly vours.

Signature On File

Y Julio Ramirez, M.D. +
he pulled me even closer to him and had one — he had his left
hand up on my shoulder blade, on my right shoulder blade, and
he had his right hand and was moving down my back towards my
butt.” Complainant 2 stated that the Respondent “ended up
touching [her] butt” after moving his hand down her back and
pulled her into him in “like a strong kind of grip.” The
Respondent then leaned in closer to Complainant 2 and “he kind
of turned his head to lean in to kiss me. And I] put my hand on his
chest and pushed him away and opened the door and started
walking back to the [exam] room.”

. Complainant 2 said that the Respondent closed the door when
they went into the room. Complainant 2 stated that the room
where the incident occurred was “kind of at the end of the hall”
and that it was “not very big at all, about the size of one of those
patient rooms.” She also said that it was dimly lit, “a lot, lot
darker than the patient’s rooms.”

The Respondent followed Complainant 2 back to the exam room
where Complainant 2’s child was waiting. The Respondent then
“grabbed [Complainant 2’s] cell phone [from the counter] and
put his cell phone number in my cell phone. And he told me to

call him later on, which I never did. I don’t even think we even

17
finished the conversation. I just grabbed my [child] and I left, and
we never went back.”
g. Complainant 2 reported this incident to her family and
subsequently transferred her children’s care to another provider.
Respondent’s Written Response to Complainant 2’s Allegations
16. In his written response to Complainant 2's allegations, the Respondent
stated that the only time Complainant 2 was at his office during the timeframe she
mentioned was on July 10, 2020, regarding a well visit for her child.
17. The Respondent admitted to leaving the exam room to talk to Complainant
2 about her child but stated that the conversation took place in his office. The Respondent
denied touching or attempting to kiss Complainant 2.
Peer Review
18. As part of its investigation, the Board referred seven (7) patient records
obtained from the Respondent (referenced infra as “Patients 1-7”) and related materials
for peer review. The review was performed by two physicians (“Peer Reviewer 1” and
“Peer Reviewer 2,” respectively) who are both board-certified in Pediatrics with a
subspecialty in Developmental-Behavioral Pediatrics. The reviewers submitted reports to
the Board which addressed standard of care issues related to the Respondent's treatment

of the patients and the adequacy of the Respondent's medical records.
19. The reviewers independently concluded that in five of the seven cases
reviewed, the Respondent failed to meet appropriate standards for the delivery of quality
medical care. Examples of deficiencies include but are not limited to the following:°

a. Failed to recommend parent training in behavior management®
which is the first-line treatment before initiating stimulant
medication for preschool-age’ patients with ADHD. (Patients 1,

7).

b. Failed to utilize a short-acting formulation of stimulant
medication before considering and/or transitioning to a long-
acting stimulant medication in preschool-age patients. (Patients
1, 7).

c. Failed to properly screen patients for comorbidities that may be a
contraindication to a trial of stimulants including, but not limited
to, cardiac conditions or family history of cardiac conditions.
(Patients 1, 7).

d. Failed to prescribe a trial of lower doses of stimulant medication

at conventional frequencies before titrating to a higher dose at

> The deficiencies pertain to Patients 1 through 7 unless specifically indicated.

6 According to the CDC, behavior therapy is an effective treatment for ADHD that can improve a child’s
behavior, self-control, and self-esteem. When parents become trained in behavior therapy, they learn
skills and strategies to create structure for their child and reinforce good behavior. It is most effective in
young children when it is delivered by parents. For children younger than 6 years old, parent training in
behavior management should be tried before prescribing ADHD medication.

? Preschool age refers to a child between 4 and 6 years of age.

19
excessive frequency (e.g., four times a day) when ‘initiating
stimulant medication as treatment for ADHD. (Patients 2, 6).
Inappropriately maintained patient on total daily dose of
stimulant medication which exceeded the Federal Drug
Administration (“FDA”) drug label dosing guidelines. (Patients
2, 6, 7).

Failed to adjust medication regimen when patient presented with
abnormal vital signs during multiple follow up visits which
placed the patient at risk of an adverse event. (Patients 2, 4, 7).
Failed to document clinical justification for change in
medication. (Patient 2).

Inappropriately prescribed atypical antipsychotic medication as
first-line treatment for aggression in a young patient with co-
occurring oppositional defiant disorder (Patient 4).
Inappropriately prescribed long-acting stimulant formulations in
the afternoon for pediatric patient which could interfere with
sleeping and appetite. (Patient 6).

Failed to document clinical justification for prescribing Abilify®

and Depakene’ for off-label use to treat ADHD. (Patient 6).

8 Abilify is an atypical antipsychotic medication used as an add-on treatment for adults with Major
Depressive Disorder (“MDD”) when an antidepressant alone is not enough. It can also be used to treat the
following conditions: manic or mixed episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder in adults and pediatric
patients 10 to 17 years of age; schizophrenia in adults and adolescents 13 to 17 years of age; irritability
associated with autistic patients 6 to 17 years of age; and Tourette’s Disorder in pediatric patients 6 to 18

20
k. Failed to make referrals to specialists where appropriate. (Patient
6).

1. Failed to document clinical justification for prescribing
Clonidine! and Trazodone!! for pediatric patient. (Patient 6).

m. Inappropriately maintained pediatric patient on prolonged high
dose stimulant medication (e.g., Focalin XR)'? when patient
displayed symptoms of possible _ stimulant-induced
psychosis/hallucinations. (Patient 6).

n. Inappropriately increased patient’s Ritalin dosage when patient
presented with worsening symptoms consistent with stimulant
toxicity over the course of six months during multiple follow up
visits. (Patient 7).

o. Failed to document clinical justification for prescribing

Risperidone.!? (Patient 7).

 

 

° Depakene is an antiepileptic used to treat various types of seizure disorders and is approved to be used
by adults and children ages 10 and older.

© Clonidine is an antihypertensive drug that lowers blood pressure and heart rate by relaxing the arteries
and increasing the blood supply to the heart.

"' Trazodone is an antidepressant used to treat MDD. It may help to improve mood, appetite, and energy
levels as well as decrease anxiety and insomnia related to depression.

" Focalin XR is an extended-release stimulant medication used to treat symptoms of ADHD in children
and adults.

'3 Risperidone is an atypical antipsychotic medication. The FDA-approved indications for oral risperidone
(tablets, oral solution, and M-TABs) include the treatment of: Schizophrenia in adults and children aged
13 and up; Bipolar | acute manic or mixed episodes as monotherapy in adults and children aged ten and
up; Bipolar | acute manic or mixed episodes adjunctive with lithium or valproate in adults; and Autism-
associated irritability in children aged five and up.

21
p. Failed to document clinical justification for prescribing Depakote
ER.'4 (Patient 7).

20. The peer reviewers concurred that the Respondent did not maintain
adequate medical records for three out of the seven patients whose charts were reviewed
for reasons including, but not limited to:

a. Failure to document circumstances related to patient stopping
medication, reason for patient later resuming expired medication,
and justification for changing the type and dosage of medication
from what was previously prescribed. (Patient 2).

b. Failure to maintain complete records of the patient’s treatment
history. (Patients 2, 5).

c. Failure to document follow-up regarding vital signs which were
outside normal range. (Patient 5).

d. Failure to document discussion regarding potential side effects of
Abilify and Depakene. (Patient 6).

e. Failure to document monitoring strategies to evaluate the
effectiveness of treatment or changes in ADHD status when
patient was at risk for increased blood pressure and increased
heart rate due to high-dose stimulant prescription combined with

albuterol three times per day. (Patient 6).

 

Depakote is used to treat various types of seizure disorders. The extended release (“ER”) and delayed
release (“DR”) forms of this medication can also be used to treat mental/mood conditions such as manic
phase of bipolar disorder) and to prevent migraine headaches.

22
21. Peer Reviewer 2 provided an addendum to his original report which
emphasized the danger of the Respondent’s prescribing practices. Peer Reviewer 2
recommended that the Board issue a cease and desist order with respect to the
Respondent’s prescribing of all medications related to ADHD, depression, and anxiety
disorders. Peer Reviewer 2’s recommendation was based on concerns about the
Respondent’s choice of medications for the treatment of depression and anxiety in
addition to the use of non-controlled medications when treating ADHD. Peer Reviewer 2
found that the Respondent “failed to exercise safe medical practices such as recognizing
the side effects of medications, observing the recommended daily limits of medications,
and not adhering to the recommended age ranges for these medications.”

NOTICE OF POSSIBLE SANCTIONS

 

If, after a hearing, a disciplinary panel of the Board finds that there are grounds for
action under Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i), (3) (ii), (22), (40), and/or Health Occ. 1-212,
and/or COMAR 10,32.17.03C, it may impose disciplinary sanctions against the
Respondent’s license in accordance with the Board’s regulations under Md. Code Regs.
10.32.02.10, including revocation, suspension, or reprimand, and may place the
Respondent on probation. The panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set
forth above, impose a civil monetary fine upon the Respondent.

NOTICE OF DISCIPLINARY COMMITTEE FOR
CASE RESOLUTION CONFERENCE

The Respondent may appear before Disciplinary Panel A, serving as the
Disciplinary Committee for Case Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter, on Wednesday,

July 10, 2024 at 9:00 a.m. at the Board’s office, 4201 Patterson Avenue, Baltimore,

23
Maryland 21215. The nature and purpose of the DCCR is described in the attached letter
to the Respondent. If this matter is not resolved before the DCCR, a prehearing
conference and hearing will be scheduled before an Administrative Law Judge at the
Office of Administrative Hearings, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031.
The hearing will be conducted in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act, Md.
Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 ef seq. (2021 Repl. Vol. & 2023 Supp.).

ANTHONY G. BROWN
ATTORNEY GENERAL OF MARYLAND

we
Woe

5/24/24

Date Veronica Colson, Assistant Attorney General
Administrative Prosecutor
Maryland Office of the Attorney General
Health Occupations Prosecution & Litigation Division
300 West Preston Street, Suite 201
Baltimore, Maryland 21201
(410) 767-1846

 

24
Mark D. Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Julio Ramirez, M.D.
Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 3
NOTARY

STATE OF MATY\and
CITY/COUNTY oF DDI UhesttY

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 11 day of SUNG —_ , 2024 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Julio Ramirez, M.D., and
declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Permanent

Letter of Surrender was a voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

  

KATELYN M SMITH
Notary Public-Maryland
Dorchester County

My Commission Expires
November 17, 2027

Notary Public

My commission expires: NOVEMptY 1] 2027

ACCEPTANCE
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this 20 day of \ VAK , 2024, I,
Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC PERMANENT SURRENDER of Julio

Ramirez, M.D.’s license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

Signature On File
Manfand Baud of Fydeges  f/
EXHIBIT A
IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

JULIO RAMIREZ, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE BOARD
Respondent * OF PHYSICIANS
LICENSE NUMBER: D53645 * CASE NUMBERS: 2224-0040A
2224-0091A
* * * * * * ; * * * * * *

CHARGES UNDER THE MARYLAND MEDICAL PRACTICE ACT

 

Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby charges JULIO RAMIREZ, M.D. (the “Respondent”), license number
D53645, under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health
Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §§ 14-101 et seq. (2021 Repl. Vol. & 2023 Supp.).

Panel A charges the Respondent with violating the following statutory and
regulatory provisions:

Health Occ. § 14-404. Denials, reprimands, probations, suspensions,
and revocations — Grounds.

(a) In general. Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of
the quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee,
place any licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the
licensee:

(3) — Is guilty of:

(i) Immoral conduct in the practice of medicine; [and]

Gi) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;
(22) Fails to meet appropriate standards as determined by
appropriate peer review for the delivery of quality medical
and surgical care performed in an outpatient surgical facility,
office, hospital, or any other location in this State; [and]

(40) Fails to keep adequate medical records as determined by
appropriate peer review[.]

Panel A further charged the Respondent with violating the following provisions of
the Act under Health Occ. § 1-212:

(a) Regulations - Each health occupations board authorized to issue.a
license or certificate under this article shall adopt regulations that:

(1) Prohibit sexual misconduct; and

(2) Provide for the discipline of a licensee or certificate holder
found to be guilty of sexual misconduct.

(b) For the purposes of the regulations adopted in accordance with
subsection (a) of this section, “sexual misconduct” shall be
construed to include, at a minimum, behavior where a health care
provider:

(3) Has engaged in any sexual behavior that would be
considered unethical or unprofessional according to the code
of ethics, professional standards of conduct, or regulations of
the appropriate health occupations board under this article.

(c) Consequences of violations — Subject to the provisions of the law
governing contested cases, if an applicant, licensee, or certificate
holder violates a regulation adopted under subsection (a) of this
section a board may:
(2)  Reprimand the licensee or certificate holder;
(3) Place the licensee or certificate holder on probation; or
(4) Suspend or revoke the license or certificate.

The pertinent provisions of the Board’s sexual misconduct regulations, COMAR

10.32.17, apply to the Respondent’s conduct after May 20, 2019,' and provide:

01 Scope
This chapter prohibits sexual misconduct by health care practitioners.
.02 Definitions
B. Terms Defined.
(1) “Health care practitioner” means an individual licensed under
Health Occupations Article, Titles 14 and 15, Annotated
Code of Maryland.
(2) Key Third Party.
(a) “Key third party” means an individual who participates in
the health and welfare of the patient concurrent with the

physician-patient relationship.

(b) “Key third party” includes, but is not limited to the
following individuals:

‘According to COMAR 10.32.17.9999, the Board’s sexual misconduct regulations went into effect on

March 6, 2000. The regulations were later amended, and the amended regulations went into effect on May
20, 2019.
(iii) Family member{.]
(3) — Sexual Contact.

(a) “Sexual contact” means the knowing touching directly or
through clothing, where the circumstances surrounding the
touching would be construed by a reasonable person to be
motivated by the health care practitioner's own prurient
interest or for sexual arousal or gratification.

(b) “Sexual contact” includes, but is not limited to:

(v) Nonclinical touching of breasts, genitals, or any other
sexualized body part.

(4) “Sexual harassment” means an unwelcome sexual advance,
request for sexual favor, or other verbal or physical conduct
of a sexual nature.

.03 Sexual Misconduct
A. Health care practitioners may not engage in sexual misconduct.

B. Health Occupations Article, §§ 14-404(a)(3) [...] includes, but is not
limited to, sexual misconduct.

Cc. Sexual misconduct includes, but is not limited to:

(1) Engaging in sexual harassment of a patient, key third party,
employee, student, or coworker regardless of whether the
sexual harassment occurs inside or outside of a professional
setting[.]
ALLEGATIONS OF FACT?

 

Panel A bases its charges against the Respondent on the following facts that it has
cause to believe are true:
L Introduction

1. On or about September 29, 2023, the Board received a complaint that the
Respondent had sexually assaulted the parent of a patient during an appointment. The
Board began an. investigation based on the complaint which led to the discovery of
additional allegations against the Respondent of inappropriate touching/sexual
harassment of employees and the parent of another of the Respondent’s patients. Further
investigation also revealed multiple violations of the standard of care as determined by
appropriate peer review and inadequate medical records relating to the Respondent’s
prescribing practices of medication for treatment of Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity
Disorder (“ADHD”) and related conditions.
Il. _— Licensing Information

2. At all times relevant hereto, Respondent was, and is, licensed to practice
medicine in Maryland. The Respondent was originally licensed to practice medicine in

1998 under license number D53645. His license is active through September 30, 2025.

> The statements about the Respondent’s conduct set forth in this document are intended to provide the
Respondent with reasonable notice of the basis for the charges. They are not intended as, and do not
necessarily represent, a complete description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be
offered against the Respondent in connection with this action.
3. The Respondent was board-certified in General Pediatrics. His certification
expired in or around January 2022.

4. The Respondent has been the sole owner and practitioner of a medical
practice located in Chestertown, Maryland since 1999. The Respondent previously had a
second office location in Queenstown, Maryland from on or about 2016 until on or about
2020.

Il. Complaint

5. On or about September 29, 2023, the Board received a complaint (the
“Complaint”) from the parent of a patient of the Respondent (“Complainant 1”)? alleging
that the Respondent had “sexually assaulted” her during her child’s appointment with the
Respondent on September 28, 2023. Specifically, Complainant 1 stated that the
Respondent entered the exam room and “shook [her] hand, placed his left hand on [her]
shoulder, and leaned in for a hug.” He then groped her left breast with one hand and her
vaginal area with his other hand. The Respondent moved his hand to Complainant 1’s
buttocks after she removed his hand from her vaginal area. The Board initiated an
investigation of the Respondent upon receipt of the Complaint.

6. During the pendency of the investigation of the Complaint, the Board
received information about a similar incident with a parent of another of the
Respondent’s patients (“Complainant 2”).

3 For confidentiality and privacy purposes, the names of individuals and health care facilities involved in

this case are not disclosed in this document. The Respondent may obtain the names of all individuals and
health care facilities referenced in this document by contacting the administrative prosecutor.
