IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

SHANNON L. WEST, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D57448 * Case Number: 2224-0128 A
* * * * * * * * x * * * x
CONSENT ORDER

On May 16, 2024, Disciplinary Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians
(the "Board") charged SHANNON L. WEST, M.D. (the “Respondent’”), License Number
D57448, under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), codified at Md. Code Ann.,
Health Oce. (“Health Occ.”) §§ 14-101 ef seq. (2021 Repl. Vol. & 2023 Supp.).
Specifically, Disciplinary Panel A charged the Respondent with violating the
following provision of the Act under Health Occ. § 14-404:
(a) Jn general. -- Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of
the quorum of the disciplinary pancl, may reprimand any licensce,
place any licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the
licensee:
(3) _ Is guilty of:
(ii) | Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;
[and]
(33) Fails to cooperate with a lawful investigation conducted by the
Board or a disciplinary panel[.]

On August 14, 2024, Panel A was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for Case

Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter. Based on the negotiations occurring as a result of this
DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of Findings of

Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, and Consent.

FINDINGS OF FACT
Panel A finds:
L. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice

medicine in the State of Maryland. The Respondent initially was licensed to practice
medicine in Maryland on April 24, 2001, under License Number D57448. The
Respondent’s license expires on September 30, 2025, subject to renewal.

2. Atall times relevant hereto, the Respondent has a private medical practice in
Owings Mills, Maryland.

3. On or about October 17, 2023, the Board received a complaint (the
“Complaint”) from a physician (“Physician A”) in Maryland alleging that over the past six
months he had been trying to obtain the medical record without success of a patient who
was previously treated by the Respondent. Physician A sought the Board's help in
obtaining the patient’s medical record from the Respondent.

4, By letter dated November 13, 2023, mailed to the Respondent's address of
record with the Board, the Board requested the Respondent provide a written response to
the Complaint no later than ten business days from the date of the Ictter, which would be
November 27, 2023. The Respondent failed to provide a written response to the Complaint
by November 27, 2023.

5. On or about December 29, 2023, Board staff emailed the Respondent the

Board’s Letter dated November 13, 2023, to the Respondent’s email address of record with
the Board and requested that the Respondent provide her written response to the Complaint
by January 4, 2024. The Respondent failed to provide a written response to the Board by
January 4, 2024.

6. On or about January 5, 2024, Board staff had a telephone conversation with
the Respondent during which the Respondent promised to provide a written response by
the coming weekend, which would be January 6 or 7, 2024. The Respondent failed to
provide a written response to the Complaint to the Board on or before January 7, 2024.

7. By email dated January 10, 2024, the Respondent finally provided a written
response to the Board but failed to address the allegations contained in the Complaint.
Board staff sent a follow-up email to the Respondent on February 7, 2024, requesting that
the Respondent address the allegations in the Complaint. The Respondent did not respond
to Board staff's February 7, 2024, email.

8. On or about February 12, 2024, the Board issued a subpoena directing that
the Respondent provide a written response to the Complaint by February 23, 2024. The
Board’s subpoena was mailed to the Respondent’s address of record with the Board by
certified mail and emailed to the Respondent’s email address of record with the Board.
Tracking information for the certified mail showed that the Board's subpoena was
delivered and left with an individual at the Respondent’s address. The Respondent failed
to provide to the Board a written response to the Complaint by February 23, 2024, or as of
the date of the charges issued on May 16, 2024.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Disciplinary Pancl A of the Board
concludes as a matter of law that the Respondent: Is guilty of: Unprofessional conduct in
the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii); and Failed to
cooperate with a lawful investigation conducted by the Board or a disciplinary panel, in
violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(33).
ORDER

Iis, thus, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Panel A, hereby:

ORDERED that the Respondent is REPRIMANDED; and it is further

ORDERED that within TEN (10) DAYS of the effective date of this Consent Order,
the Respondent shall provide acceptable written proof, satisfactory to Disciplinary Panel
A, confirming that she has produced the medical record of the patient she previously treated
to Physician A, as requested by Physician A. The proof required may be in the form of: (1)
a written response from Physician A confirming the physician’s reccipt of the medical
record; or (2) trackable mailing service; and it is further

ORDERED that if the Respondent fails to provide to Disciplinary Panel A the
salisfactory proof required, the Respondent's medical license in Maryland shall be
automatically suspended from the 11" day of the effective date of this Consent Order and
will remain suspended until she is in full compliance with the requirement to produce the
patient’s medical record to Physician A, as set forth above. If the suspension is imposed,
upon the Respondent’s compliance and production of the medical record, the suspension
shall be administratively terminated through an order of the disciplinary panel; and it is

further
ORDERED that the Respondent’s failure to provide satisfactory proof of her
production of the patient’s medical record to Physician A constitutes a violation of the
Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that within ONE (1) YEAR from the effective date of this Consent
Order, the Respondent shall pay a civil fine of TWENTY- FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS
($2,500.00). The Payment shall be by money order or bank certified check made payable
to the Maryland Board of Physicians and mailed to P.O. Box 37217, Baltimore, Maryland
21297. The Board will not renew or reinstate the Respondent’s license if the Respondent
fails to timely pay the fine to the Board; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent
Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive
Director signs the Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which has imposed
the terms and conditions of this Consent Order, and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling
the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing
shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings
followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel; and if there is no genuine
dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before a

disciplinary panel; and it is further
ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this
Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend or revoke the
Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in
addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on
the Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Md. Code Ann.,

Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

Signature On File

04 fie | 24

Date -- Christine A. Parrdlly /
Executive Director

Maryland State Board of Physiciar
CONSENT

I, Shannon L. West, M. D., assert that | am aware of my right to consult with and
be represented by counsel in considering this Consent Order and in any proceedings that
would otherwise result from the charges currently pending. | have chosen to proceed
without counsel and I acknowledge that the decision to proceed without counsel is freely
and voluntarily made.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for
amendments or modifications to any condition.

L assert that ] am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov't §§ 10-201 ef seq.
concerning the pending charges. I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent
Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all
other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those procedural
and substantive protections. I] acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the
disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order.
I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth in the
Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. | waive any right to contest the Findings of
Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive all rights to
appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the language
and meaning of its terms.

Signature On File

4 liz log

Date Shannon L. West, M.D.
Respondent

wT 7~
NOTARY

STATE OF _\\QC Ying 3
CITY/COUNTY OF Ra Vb mote

1 HEREBY CERTIFY that on _ this ee day of

G ZL tow eT 2024, before me, a Notary Public of the foregoing

State and City/County, Shannon L. West, M.D. personally appeared and made oath in
due form of law that signing the foregoing Consent Order was her voluntary act and deed.
AS WITNESSETH my hand and notarial seal. -
Notary Public
TAN BAHAR

UBLIC oo . =
NOTARY, MA RYLAND My commission expires: __{ ) x \ \(g oO at

BALTIMORE ORE CE weogT
