IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

JASON CLEM, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D58701 * Case Number: 7725-0011
* * * k * * * * * * * * *

ORDER TERMINATING SUSPENSION AND IMPOSING PROBATION
On July 31, 2024, Disciplinary Panel B (the ‘“Panel”) of the Maryland State Board of
Physicians (the “Board”) and Jason Clem, M.D. (the “Respondent”) entered into a Consent Order
whereby the Panel concluded, as a matter of law, that Dr. Clem was professionally, physically, or

mentally incompetent, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(4); and habitually intoxicated, in

violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(7).

Under the terms of the Consent Order, the Panel reprimanded the Respondent, terminated the
Order of Summary Suspension dated April 11, 2024 as moot, and suspended him for a minimum
period of six (6) months and until the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program ("MPRP") finds
and notifies the Board that he is safe to return to the practice of medicine.

Six (6) months have passed from the July 31, 2024 Consent Order and MPRP has notified the
Board that the Respondent is safe to return to the practice of medicine.

It is thus, by the Panel, hereby

ORDERED that the suspension imposed by the July 31, 2024 Consent Order is
TERMINATED; and it is further

ORDERED that the reprimand imposed by the July 31, 2024 Consent Order remains in effect;

and it is further

! The July 31, 2024 Consent Order is incorporated by reference and available upon request.
ORDERED that the Respondent is placed on PROBATION for a minimum period of TWO
(2) YEARS.? During the probation, the Respondent shall comply with the following terms and
conditions:
1. The Respondent shall remain enrolled in MPRP:

a. The Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all of
MPRP's referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the
terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and
Participant Rehabilitation Plans(s) entered into with MPRP, and shall fully
participate and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings
as directed by MPRP;

b. The Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to
authorize the Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP records and
files in a public order. The Respondent shall not withdraw his release/consent;

c. The Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities
(including all of the Respondent’ s current therapists and treatment providers)
verbal and written information concerning the Respondent and to ensure that
MPRP is authorized to receive the medical records of the Respondent,
including, but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and
treatment records. The Respondent shall not withdraw his release/consent;

d. The Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms and conditions
including terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s)
or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation of this Order
Terminating Suspension and Imposing Probation;

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that if, upon the authorization of MPRP, the
Respondent transfers to a rehabilitation program in another State, his failure to comply with
any term or condition of the out-of-state’s rehabilitation program, constitutes a violation of
this Order. The Respondent shall also sign any out-of state written release/consent forms to
authorize the Board to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) the out-of-state
program verbal and written information concerning the Respondent, and to ensure that the
Board is authorized to receive the medical records of the Respondent, including, but not
limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment records. The
Respondent shall not withdraw the release/consent; and it is further

2 Ifthe Respondent’s license expires during the period of probation, the probation and any conditions will be tolled.
ORDERED that the Respondent shall not apply for early termination of probation; and it is
further

ORDERED that, after the Respondent has complied with all terms and conditions of
probation and the minimum period of probation imposed by the Order Terminating Suspension and
Imposing Probation has passed, the Respondent may submit a written petition to the disciplinary panel
for termination of the probation. The Respondent may be required to appear before the disciplinary
panel to discuss his petition for termination. The disciplinary panel may grant the petition to terminate
the probation through an order of the disciplinary panel, if the Respondent has complied with all
probationary terms and conditions and there are no pending complaints related to the charges; and it
is further

ORDERED that a violation of probation constitutes a violation of this Order Terminating
Suspension and Imposing Probation; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all cost incurred in fulfilling the terms and
conditions of this Order Terminating Suspension and Imposing Probation; and it is further

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition
imposed by this Order Terminating Suspension and Imposing Probation, the Respondent shall be
given notice and an opportunity for a hearing. If the disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine
dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of
Administrative Hearings, followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel: and if the
disciplinary panel determines there is no genuine disputes as to a material fact, the Respondent shall
be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary; and it is further

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines that the

Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this Order Terminating
Suspension and Imposing Probation, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend with appropriate terms
and conditions, or revoke the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary
panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine
on the Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Order Terminating Suspension and Imposing
Probation is the date the Order Terminating Suspension and Imposing Probation is signed by the
Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive Director signs the Order Terminating
Suspension and Imposing Probation on behalf of the disciplinary panel which has imposed the terms
and conditions of this Order Terminating Suspension and Imposing Probation; and it is further

ORDERED that this is a public document.

02 /2u hops Signature On File

Maryland State Board of Physicians
