IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

JASON A. CLEM, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D58701 * Case Number: 7724-0049B
x * * * * * * * * * * * *
CONSENT ORDER

On April 18, 2024, Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B’”) of the Maryland State Board
of Physicians (the “Board”) charged JASON A. CLEM, M.D. (the “Respondent”),
License Number D58701, under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code
Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seq. (2021 Repl. Vol. & 2023 Supp.).

Specifically, Disciplinary Panel B charged the Respondent under the following
provisions of the Act:

Health Occ. § 14-404. License denial, suspension, or revocation.

(a) In general. - Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of
the quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee,
place any licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the
licensee:

(4) __ Is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent; [and/or]

(7)  Habitually is intoxicated[.]

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel B finds the following:
L Background/Licensing Information

1. The Respondent was originally issued a license to practice medicine in
Maryland on May 8, 2002, under License Number D58701. The Respondent continuously
had his license renewed. The Respondent’s license expires on September 30, 2024, subject
to renewal.

2. The Respondent is board-certified in Family Medicine.

Il. The Board Investigation

3. On or about December 9, 2022, the Board received notice that the facility
(the “Facility”)' where the Respondent was employed had issued a statewide ban? for the
Respondent’s violation of the Facility's Standards of Conduct. The Respondent resigned
from his position at the Facility the following day.

4. On September 7, 2023, a Board investigation resulted in disciplinary charges
(the “Disciplinary Charges”) being issued for violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii) -
Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, under Board case number 2223-0070B.

5. On or about December 19, 2023, the Respondent voluntarily entered into a

Public Consent Order (the “Consent Order”) to resolve the Disciplinary Charges. The

‘ For confidentiality and privacy reasons, the specific information contained in the Evaluations will not be
disclosed in this document.

? Based on the information received, the Respondent was banned from entering all locations related to the
Facility.
Consent Order contains Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law that the Respondent is
guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine in violation of Health Occ. §
14-404(a)(3)(ii).

6. Pursuant to the Consent Order, the Respondent was reprimanded; placed on
probation for a minimum of two (2) years with the conditions that the Respondent enroll
in and successfully complete the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”)
and within six (6) months take and complete a Panel-approved course in
professionalism/ethics.

7. On or about March 4-5, 2023, the Respondent appeared at an MPRP-
affiliated program (the “Health Program”) for an evaluation and was diagnosed with health
conditions that concern his ability to safely practice medicine.

8. On or about March 8, 2024, the Respondent signed a practice cessation
agreement pursuant to the recommendation by the Health Program.

9. On or about March 20, 2024, the Health Program provided the Board with
the result of the evaluations. Medical specialists from the Health Program reviewed the
pertinent documents, including, but not limited to, documents contained in the Board’s
investigative file from the Disciplinary Charges and the evaluations, and opined in their
Safety Assessment that the Respondent “is not currently fit to practice medicine with

reasonable skill and safety.”
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the findings of fact, Disciplinary Panel B concludes that Dr. Clem is
professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent, in violation of Health Occ. § 14
404(a)(4); and habitually intoxicated, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(7).

ORDER

It is, by an affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Disciplinary Panel B,
hereby:

ORDERED that the Consent Order dated December 14, 2023 is TERMINATED
as MOOT; and it is further

ORDERED that the summary suspension of the Respondent's license to practice
medicine in Maryland, ordered on April 11, 2024 is TERMINATED as MOOT; and it
isfurther

ORDERED that the Respondent is REPRIMANDED; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent's license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland is SUSPENDED for a minimum of SIX MONTHS.? During the suspension, the
Respondent shall comply with the following terms and conditions of suspension:

L The Respondent shall remain enrolled in the Maryland Professional
Rehabilitation Program ("MPRP") as follows:
(a) Within 5 business days, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule
an initial consultation for his continued enrollment;
(b) Within 15 business days, the Respondent shall enter into a Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with
MPRP;

3 If Dr. Clem's license expires during the period of probation, the probation and any conditions will be tolled,
(c) The Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all
MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to,
the terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s)
and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully
participate and comply with. all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and
screenings as directed by MPRP;

(d) The Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and
to authorize the Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP
records and files in a public order. the Respondent shall not withdraw his
release/consent;

(e) The Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from)
outside entities (including all of the Respondent’s current therapists and
treatment providers) verbal and written information concerning the
Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical
records of the Respondent. the Respondent shall not withdraw his
release/consent;

(f) The Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or
conditions including terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation
of this Final Decision and Order;

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that if, upon the authorization of MPRP, the
Respondent transfers to a rehabilitation program in another State, his failure to comply
with any term or condition of the out-of-state’s rehabilitation program, constitutes a
violation of this Order. The Respondent shall also sign any out-of-state written
release/consent forms to authorize the Board to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive
from) the out-of-state program verbal and written information concerning the Respondent,

and to ensure that the Board is authorized to receive the medical records of the Respondent,
including, but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment
records. The Respondent shall not withdraw the release/consent; and it is further

ORDERED that if MPRP finds and notifies the Board that the Respondent is safe
to return to the practice of medicine and the minimum six (6) month suspension has
concluded, the Respondent may submit a written petition to the disciplinary panel to
terminate the suspension of the Respondent’s license. The Respondent may be required to
appear before the disciplinary panel to discuss his or her petition for termination or the
suspension may be administratively terminated. If the disciplinary panel determines that it
is safe for the Respondent to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension will be
terminated through an order of the disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may
impose any terms and conditions it deems appropriate on the Respondent’s return to
practice, that will include probation for TWO YEARS and continuation of the
Respondent’s enrollment in MPRP and any other terms deemed appropriate by the Panel.
If the disciplinary panel determines that it is not safe for the Respondent to return to the
practice of medicine, the suspension shall be continued through an order of the disciplinary
panel for a length of time determined by the disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel
may impose any additional terms and conditions it deems appropriate; and it is further

ORDERED that a violation of the suspension constitutes a violation of the Consent
Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent shall not apply for early termination of the

suspension; and it is further
ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If the disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute as
to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of
Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel;
and if the disciplinary panel determines there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact,
the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is
further

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this
Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend with
appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke the Respondent’s license to practice medicine
in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set
forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on the Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent
Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive
Director or her designee signs the Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which

has imposed the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further
ORDERED that this Final Decision and Order is a PUBLIC document pursuant to

Health Occ. § 1-607, § 14-411.1(b)(2), and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

07 pipeoy Signature On File

Christine A. ppl ecutive Direct
Maryland State rly) Hees hysicians

Date
CONSENT

I, Jason Clem, M.D., acknowledge that I have consulted with counsel before signing this
document.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and conditions
and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for amendments
or modifications to any condition.

l assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md. Code
Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 et seq. concerning
the pending charges. I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered after the
conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to counsel,
to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all other
substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those procedural and
substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the
disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order.

I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth in the
Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the Findings of
Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive all rights to
appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the language and
meaning of its terms.

t)2e] 24 Signature On File

Date Jason Clem, M.D.

NOTARY

STATE OF Olu

Sum m i

CITY/COUNTY OF

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 2¢* day of dv! 4.

2024, before me, a Notary Public of the State and County aforesaid, personally appeared
Jason Clem, M.D., and gave oath in due form of law that the foregoing Consent Order was

his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS, my hand and Notary Seal.

Jill C. Cabe, Attorney at Law

’ Notary Public, State of Ohio

fees’ § My Commission has No Expiration Date
of

Section 147.03 RC. > CAA
Notary Public

My Commission Expires: N A

