IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

LINDA MYERS, M.D. * STATE BOARD OF
Respondent * PHYSICIANS
License Number: D64706 * Case Number: 2225-0089 A
FORK HK Fe HHH TERT EK FE TIE I FC FE IE TE CE TE TEE EE EI NC Te He a ae oe ae a dee eK
CONSENT ORDER

On May 28, 2025, Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board
of Physicians (the “Board”) charged Linda Myers, M.D. (the “Respondent”), License
Number D64706, under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann.,
Health Occupations (“Health Occ.”) §§ 14-101 ef seg. (2021 Repl. Vol. & 2024 Supp.).

Panel A charged the Respondent under the following provisions of Health Occ. §
14-404:

(a) In general. - Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this

subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority
of the quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensce,
place any licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if a
licensee:
(3) Is guilty of:

(ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine].]

On August 13, 2025, Panel A was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for Case
Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter. Based on negotiations occurring as a result of this

DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of Findings of

Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, and Consent.
FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel A finds:
I. Background

1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was licensed to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland, The Respondent was originally licensed to practice
medicine in Maryland on June 12, 2006, under License Number D64706. The
Respondent's license expires on September 30, 2025, subject to renewal.

2, The Respondent holds medical licenses in Washington, D.C. and Virginia.

3. The Respondent is board-certified in Anesthesiology and lists General
Practice as an area of practice.

4, At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was employed as an
anesthesiologist at a medical facility (“Facility 1”)' located in Anne Arundel County,
Maryland. Concurrently, the Respondent also worked at a medical spa (“Facility 2”)
located in Alexandria, Virginia, where she provided cosmetic treatments, including
aesthetic injectables.

IL. Board Investigation

5. The Board opened an investigation after receiving a complaint on October
17, 2024, from a co-worker of the Respondent (“Complainant”). The Complainant alleged
that the Respondent had been bringing unused Botox from patients treated at Facility 2 and

injecting it into staff at Facility | without documentation.

' For confidentiality and privacy purposes, the names of the facilities and individuals involved in this case
will not be disclosed in this Consent Order.

2
6. As part of its investigation, the Board obtained statements from the
Complainant and reviewed documentation regarding the allegations. The Complainant
stated that she observed the Respondent injecting staff with Botox that had been brought
from Facility 2.

7, In a written response to the Board and during an investigative interview
conducted on February 13, 2025, the Respondent acknowledged that she had administered
Botox injections to at least three staff members within Facility 1. The Respondent stated
that the Botox had been previously opened and used for patients at Facility 2 and that she
transported the remaining product to Maryland to avoid waste. She admitted that the
individuals who received the injections were not formal patients, that no medical records
were created, and that no written informed consent was obtained. The Respondent
indicated that the injections were performed informally and described them as favors to
colleagues.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing findings of fact, Disciplinary Panel A concludes as a matter
of law that the Respondent is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine,
in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii).

ORDER

It is thus, on the affirmative vote of the quorum of Disciplinary Panel A of the Board,

hereby:

ORDERED that the Respondent is REPRIMANDED; and it is further
ORDERED that within ONE (1) YEAR of the effective date of this Consent Order,
the Respondent shall pay a civil fine of FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS ($5,000.00). The
Payment shall be by money order or bank certified check made payable to the Maryland
Board of Physicians and mailed to P.O. Box 37217, Baltimore, Maryland 21297. The
Board will not renew or reinstate the Respondent’s license if the Respondent fails to timely
pay the fine to the Board; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order shall not be amended or modified, and future
requests for modification will not be considered by the Board or a disciplinary panel; and
it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If the disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute
as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office
of Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel;
and if the disciplinary panel determines there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact,
the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is
further

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this

Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
4
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, suspend the Respondent's
license with appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke the Respondent’s license to
practice medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of
the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on the Respondent; and it is
further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent
Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive
Director or her designee signs the Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which
has imposed the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-

607, 14-411.1(b)(2)(2021 Repl. Vol.) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6)(2019 Repl. Vol.

oa iole0es Signature on file
are ristine A. Farte
° Checitive Direotak ()
CONSENT

I, Linda Myers, M.D., acknowledge that I have consulted with counsel before
signing this document.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for
amendments or modifications to any condition.

I assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov't §§ 10-201 ef seq.
concerning the pending charges. I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent
Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all
other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those procedural
and substantive protections. 1 acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the
disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order,

I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth
in the Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. 1 waive any right to contest the
Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive
all rights to appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the language

and meaning of its terms.

re on file
ee Signature o

Date Linda Myprs. M.D.
NOTARY

STATE OF Nan Law

CITY / COUNTY niente Prunotl

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this_ QO” day of Avso 2025

before me, a Notary Public of the foregoing State and City/County, personally appeared

Linda Myers, M.D. and made oath in due form of law that signing the foregoing Consent
Order was her voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and notarial seal.

Notary Public

ABISOLA OLANIPEKUN
NOTARY PUBLIC
Prince George's County, Maryland
Sk . My Commission Expires 9/27/2027
My Commission expires:
