Sadiq Al- Samarrai, M.D.

Mark Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4 Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Sadiq Al-Samarrai, M.D., License Number: D69977
Case Number: 2225-0021A

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403, I have decided to PERMANENTLY SURRENDER my license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D69977, effective immediately. |
understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment
to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or
otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the
Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seq. and other
applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Permanent Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, *
and upon Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board received a complaint alleging the potential existence
of a health condition that impacts my ability to safely practice medicine. I further
acknowledge that the Board began an investigation of these allegations, and that Panel A
summarily suspended my medical license on September 30, 2024. I have decided to
surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland! to avoid further
investigation and prosecution of these allegations and due to my current health condition
and retirement. I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure that these
allegations shall be treated as proven and that these allegations support a conclusion of
Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(4).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution

Upon Panel A’s acceptance of this permanent Letter of Surrender, I acknowledge that the Order for
Summary Suspension of License to Practice Medicine issued on September 30, 2024, is terminated as moot.
Mark Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Sadiq Al-Samarrai, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2

of the aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand
that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any
charges that would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary
hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give
testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural
protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I also
understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or
jurisdiction that this Permanent Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the
Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant
to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seq., and that this Permanent Letter of Surrender
constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to
surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substance Registration to the Office of Controlled
Substances Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of Surrender,
my license will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree that I have no
right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been -
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings
before Panel A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this
Permanent Letter of Surrender. I understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this
Permanent Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the
language, meaning and terms and effect of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I make this
decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Sadiq Al-Samarrai, M.D.

X Signature On File
Mark Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Sadiq Al-Samarrai, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 3

NOTARY

eMarYland
Or COUNEY OF Roward

fo
| HEREBY CERTIFY that on this Ly aap of OCIONES, 2024 before me, a
Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Sadiq Al-Samarrai, M.D.,
and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Permanent
Letter of Surrender was voluntary. _-

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

AE VOT A
Notary Public )

My commission expires: Feo. Ou - 20277

VICTORIA CALDERON
Notary Public
Anne Arundel County
Maryland
My Commission Expires Feb. 04, 2027

ACCEPTANCE

te
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this | day of Ocho bee , 2024, I,
Christine A. Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Sadiq Al-Samarrai, M.D.’s
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

Signature On File

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Dingeyor
Maryland Board of Physicians

