IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

SADIQ AL-SAMARRAI, M.D. x STATE BOARD OF
Respondent = PHYSICIANS
License Number: D69977 * Case Number: 2225-0021 A
* x * x x * * * * * & * * *

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION OF LICENSE
TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license to practice medicine of SADIQ
AL-SAMARRAI, M.D. (the “Respondent”), License Number D69977, in the State of
Maryland.

Panel A takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann., State
Gov’t §10-226(c)(2)(2022 Repl. Vol. and 2023 Supp.) and Md. Code Regs. (“COMAR”)
10.32.02.08B(7), concluding that the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively
requires emergency action.

INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS

Based on information received by, and made known to Panel A, and the
investigatory information obtained by, received by and made known to and available to
Panel A, including the instances described below, Panel A has reason to believe that the
following facts are true:'

' The statements regarding the Respondent’s conduct are intended to provide the Respondent with
reasonable notice of the basis of Panel A’s action. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily

represent, a complete description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against
the Respondent in connection with this matter.
INTRODUCTION

1. Panel A is summarily suspending the Respondent’s license to practice
medicine after a Board investigation revealed that he has a health condition that affects
his ability to practice medicine safely.

BACKGROUND/LICENSING INFORMATION

2. At all relevant times, the Respondent was licensed to practice medicine in
the State of Maryland. The Respondent was originally issued a license to practice
medicine in Maryland on November 10, 2009, under License Number D69977. The
Respondent’s license expires on September 30, 2024, subject to renewal.

3. The Respondent is board-certified in Psychiatry.

4. At all relevant times, the Respondent practiced at a hospital? (the
Hospital”) in Maryland.
THE COMPLAINT
5s On or about July 10, 2024, the Board received an anonymous complaint

(the “Complaint”) about an alleged health condition of the Respondent “which is putting
both staff and patients in dangerous situations.” The anonymous complainant also

described in detail several specific instances of concern involving the Respondent.

? For confidentiality reasons, the names of health care facilities referenced herein, will not be disclosed in
this document. The Respondent may obtain this information from the Administrative Prosecutor.
BOARD INVESTIGATION
6. Upon receipt of the Complaint, the Board initiated an investigation. As part
of its investigation, the Board subpoenaed and obtained the Respondent’s personnel files
from the Hospital, and subpoenaed and obtained medical records of the Respondent,
including the results of three evaluations. The Board also interviewed three staff
members of the Hospital, and received a written statement from the Respondent. The
Board also referred the Respondent to a Board-approved program (the “Program”) for an

independent evaluation to determine his present fitness to practice medicine safely.

ds The investigation determined that the Respondent suffered a workplace
injury in June 2023.
8. After the injury, Hospital staff observed several concerning behaviors

exhibited by the Respondent that placed Hospital staff and patients at risk.

9: On July 24, 2024, the Respondent was evaluated by a specialist. During the
evaluation, the specialist noted a potential health condition and referred the Respondent
for additional testing.

10. On July 31, 2024, the Respondent was referred for an additional evaluation
by a specialist. Based on the evaluation, the physician concluded that the Respondent “is
currently unable to perform the essential job duties of his position as a psychiatrist at this

time[.]”
11. On or about August 20, 2024, the Respondent was referred to another
specialist for an evaluation. Based on the evaluation, the specialist concluded the
Respondent “is not found fit to continue in his position as psychiatrist [at the Hospital].”°

12. On September 6, 2024, a specialist retained by the Program conducted a
comprehensive evaluation of the Respondent to determine his present fitness to practice
medicine safely. The specialist issued a report that concluded the Respondent “is not
currently competent to practice psychiatric medicine.”

CONCLUSION OF LAW

Based upon the foregoing Investigative Findings, Panel A of the Board concludes
as a matter of law that the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires
emergency action, and that pursuant to State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) and COMAR
10.32.02.08B(7), the Respondent’s license is summarily suspended.

ORDER

IT IS thus, by Panel A of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested in Panel A by State Govt. § 10-
226(c)(2)(2022 Repl. Vol. and 2023 Supp.) and COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7), the
Respondent's license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland is hereby

SUMMARILY SUSPENDED; and it is further

> For confidentiality reasons, the specific information in the Respondent’s medical records and
evaluations will not be disclosed in this document. This information will be disclosed to the Respondent
upon request. The Panel reviewed this information prior to the issuance of this Order for Summary
Suspension of License to Practice Medicine.
ORDERED that, during the course of the summary suspension, the Respondent
shall not practice medicine in the State of Maryland; and it is further

ORDERED that in accordance with Md. Code Regs. 10.32.02.08B(7) and E, a
post-deprivation hearing on the summary suspension will be held on Wednesday,
October 9, 2024, at 10:30 a.m. at the Board's offices, located at 4201 Patterson
Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland, 21215-0095; and it is further

ORDERED that after the SUMMARY SUSPENSION hearing before Panel A,
the Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the hearing, may request, within ten (10)
days, an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be set within thirty (30) days of the
request, before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office of Administrative Hearings,
Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031-
1301; and it is further

ORDERED that a copy of the Order for Summary Suspension shall be filed by
Panel A immediately in accordance with Health Occ. § 14-407 (2022 Repl. Vol. and
2023 Supp.); and it is further

ORDERED that this is a disciplinary Order of Panel A, and as such, is a public

document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. § 4-

333(b)(6).
ols Signature On File
Date Christine A. Farrelly,

Maryland State Boar
