IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

JENNIFER WORMUTH, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D66302 * Case Number: 2225-0124 A
* * * * * * * * * * * * *
CONSENT ORDER

On March 27, 2025, Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board

of Physicians (the "Board") charged JENNIFER WORMUTH, M.D. (the “Respondent”),

License Number D66302, under the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), codified

at Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §§ 14-101 et seq. (2021 Repl. Vol. & 2024

Supp.) Panel A charged the Respondent with violating the following provisions of the Act:

Health Occ. § 14-404. Denials, reprimands, probations, suspensions, and

(a)

revocations — Grounds.

In general. -- Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of
the quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee,
place any licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the
licensee:
(3) Is guilty of:

(ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;
(4) Is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent; [and]

(9) Provides professional services:

(i) While under the influence of alcohol[.]

On July 9, 2025, Panel A was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for Case

Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter. Based on negotiations occurring as a result of this
DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of Findings of

Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, and Consent.

FINDINGS OF FACT
Panel A finds:
L BACKGROUND
L. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice

medicine in the State of Maryland. The Respondent initially was licensed to practice
medicine in Maryland on June 20, 2007, under License Number D66302. The
Respondent’s license has an expiration date of September 30, 2025. The Respondent’s
license is currently suspended as of March 26, 2025.!

2. The Respondent was employed as an acute care surgeon at a health care
facility (the “Facility”)? located in Anne Arundel County, Maryland from November 1,
2014, until her termination on January 2, 2025.

3. On or about January 14, 2025, the Board opened an investigation into the
Respondent after receiving a complaint from the Facility, reporting that the Respondent
had exhibited impaired behavior while on duty and tested positive for an elevated blood

alcohol level on November 29, 2024.

'On March 26, 2025, Panel A issued an Order for Summary Suspension of License to Practice Medicine,
pursuant to Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2). By letter dated April 10, 2025, Panel A reaffirmed
the summary suspension order.

2 For confidentiality and privacy purposes, the names of the facility and individuals involved in this case
will not be disclosed in this Consent Order.

Il. BOARD INVESTIGATION

4. As part of its investigation, the Board obtained medical records,
administrative documents, and emergency department records from the Facility. The Board
also interviewed the Respondent and several individuals associated with the incident.

5. The Facility’s records confirm that Respondent admitted to consuming
alcohol while on duty. The Respondent began her shift on or about November 29, 2024, at
7:00 a.m., and at approximately 11:00 a.m., she retrieved wine from her vehicle, poured a
substantial amount into a thermos, and brought it into the Facility. She drank from the
thermos throughout the remainder of her shift until 7:00 p.m., when a colleague arriving
for the night shift found her visibly intoxicated. The colleague described her as confused,
slow to respond to questions, struggling to log into the Facility’s computer system, and
having difficulty putting on her shoes.

6. The Respondent was escorted to the Facility’s Emergency Department for an
evaluation. Her blood alcohol concentration was recorded at 0.387%. Emergency
Department records indicate that Respondent was not safe to be discharged.

7. On or about November 30, 2024, the Respondent was relieved of all duties
pending further investigation by the Facility. The Respondent was terminated on January
2, 2025.

8. During a Board interview on February 20, 2025, the Respondent
acknowledged that she had been impaired by alcohol while on duty on November 29, 2024.
She confirmed the essential details of her conduct that day, including consuming alcohol

during her shift and the resulting elevated blood alcohol level recorded in the Emergency
Department. The Respondent admitted to continuing to participate in clinical activities,

including sign-out rounds with residents, after she had begun drinking. She further stated

that during evening rounds, she felt “very distracted” and “somewhat” impaired.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing findings of fact, Disciplinary Panel A concludes as a matter _
of law that the Respondent is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine,
in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii); is professionally, physically, or mentally
incompetent, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(4); and provides professional services
while under the influence of alcohol, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(9)(i).

ORDER

It is thus, on the affirmative vote of the quorum of Disciplinary Panel A of the Board,
hereby:

ORDERED that the Order for Summary Suspension of the Respondent’s license to
practice medicine, issued on March 26, 2025, pursuant to State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2), and
affirmed on April 10, 2025, is TERMINATED as moot; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is REPRIMANDED; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent’s medical license is SUSPENDED for a minimum
period of ONE (1) YEAR, with a retroactive start date of March 26, 2025, corresponding

to the date of implementation of the Respondent’s summary suspension; and it is further

3 If the Respondent’s license expires during the period of suspension, the suspension and any conditions
will be tolled.
ORDERED that during the suspension, the Respondent shall comply with the

following terms and conditions:

(1) The Respondent shall not:

{a)
(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)
(6

practice medicine;

take any actions after the effective date of this Consent Order
to hold herself out to the public as a current provider of medical
services;

authorize, allow or condone the use of the Respondent’s name
or provider number by any health care practice or any other

licensee or health care provider;

function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or
other medical care facility in the state;

prescribe or dispense medications;

perform any other act that requires an active medical license.

(2) The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation

Program (“MPRP”) as follows:

(a)

(b)

(d)

Within 5 business days of the effective date of this Consent Order, the
Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule an initial consultation for
enrollment;

Within 15 business days of the effective date of this Consent Order, the
Respondent shall enter into a Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

The Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all
MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to,
the terms and conditions of any Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s)
and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully
participate and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and
screenings as directed by MPRP;

The Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and
to authorize the Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP
records and files in a public order. The Respondent shall not withdraw
the release/consent;

(e) The Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from)
outside entities (including all of the Respondent’s current therapists and
treatment providers) verbal and written information concerning the
Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical
records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental health
and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment records. The Respondent
shall not withdraw the release/consent;

(f) If, upon the authorization of MPRP, the Respondent transfers to a
rehabilitation program in another state, the Respondent’s failure to
comply with any term or condition of that state’s [the out-of-state’s]
rehabilitation program, constitutes a violation of this Consent Order. The
Respondent shall also sign any out-of-state written release/consent forms
to authorize the Board to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from)
the out-of-state program verbal and written information concerning the
Respondent, and to ensure that the Board is authorized to receive the
medical records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental
health and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment records. The
Respondent shall not withdraw the release/consent;

(g) The Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or
conditions including terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation
of this Consent Order.

(2) Within SEX (6) MONTHS of the effective date of this Consent Order, the
Applicant is required to take and successfully complete a course in
Professionalism. The following terms apply:

(a) it is the Respondent’s responsibility to locate, enroll in and obtain the
disciplinary panel’s approval of the course before the course is begun;

(b) the Respondent must provide documentation to the disciplinary panel that
the Respondent has successfully completed the course;

(c) the course may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical education
credits required for license renewal;

(d) the Respondent is responsible for the cost of the course; and it is further
ORDERED that the Respondent shall not apply for early termination of suspension;
and it is further

ORDERED that a violation of suspension constitutes a violation of the Consent
Order; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order shall not be amended or modified, and future
requests for modification will not be considered; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the minimum period of a ONE (1) YEAR suspension has
passed, and after the Respondent has complied with all terms and conditions of suspension,
and upon a report from MPRP to the Board that the Respondent has complied with all of
the requisite referrals and treatment and is safe to resume the practice of medicine, the
Respondent may submit a written petition to the Board requesting termination of
suspension. The Respondent may be required to appear before the disciplinary panel to
discuss her petition for termination. After consideration of the petition, and if the
disciplinary panel determines that is safe for the Respondent to return to the practice of
medicine, the suspension will be terminated through an order of the disciplinary panel, and
the disciplinary panel may impose any terms and conditions it deems appropriate on the
Respondent’s return to the practice of medicine, including, but not limited to, probation
and/or continuation of the Respondent’s enrollment in MPRP. If the disciplinary panel
determines that it is not safe for the Respondent to return to practice of medicine, the

suspension shall be continued through an order of the disciplinary panel for a length of
time determined by the disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may impose any
additional terms and conditions it deems appropriate; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If the disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute
as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office
of Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel;
and if the disciplinary panel determines there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact,
the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is
further

ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this
Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, suspend the Respondent’s
license with appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke the Respondent’s license to
practice medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of
the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine on the Respondent; and it is
further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent

Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive
Director or her designee signs the Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which
has imposed the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further
ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Health Occ.

§§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2)(2021 Repl. Vol.) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6)(2019 Repl. Vol.)

osi2ab02< Signature on file

Dat Christine A. Farrelly ‘ (/
Executive Director

CONSENT

I, Jennifer Wormuth, M.D., acknowledge that I have consulted with counsel before

signing this document.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for
amendments or modifications to any condition.

I assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-405 and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 ef seg.
concerning the pending charges. I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent
Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all
other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those procedural
and substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the
disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order.
I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth
in the Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the
Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive
all rights to appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the language
and meaning of its terms.

oe baat Signature on file
7 (23/2028

Date Jerinifer Wormuth, M.D.

STATE oro oncf_

CITY / COUNTY OF RwresAvind
vA ty |]
I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this ys day of 2025,
before me, a Notary Public of the foregoing State and City/County,\personally appeared

Jennifer Wormuth, M.D. and made oath in due form of law that signing the foregoing

NOTARY

Consent Order was her voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and notarial seal.

ANGEL PHILLIPS a otary ublic a

Notary Public - State of Maryland
Anne Arundel County

My Commission expires: NOW (Uf, 27

My Commission Expires Nov 10, 2026

10
