IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

ANGELA GUCWA, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D78628 * Case Number: 7724-0052
x * k x * * * * * * * t * *

ORDER TERMINATING SUSPENSION AND IMPOSING PROBATION
Procedural Background

On January 4, 2024, Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B” or the “Panel”) of the
Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”) and Angela Gucwa, M.D. entered into
a Consent Order. Under the Consent Order, Panel B concluded that Dr. Gucwa was guilty
of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Md. Code Ann.,
Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii); was habitually intoxicated, in violation of Health Occ. §
14-404(a)(7); and provided professional services while under the influence of alcohol, in
violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(9)(i).!

Under the terms of the Consent Order, Panel B terminated as moot the order of
summary suspension that was imposed upon Dr. Gucwa’s license, on September 12, 2023,
and the order affirming the summary suspension that was issued on September 27, 2023;
reprimanded Dr. Gucwa, suspended Dr. Gucwa’s Maryland medical license for a minimum

period of one year, and required her to comply with certain conditions of suspension, which

' The January 4, 2024 Consent Order terminated as moot the summary suspension of Dr.
Gucwa’s license imposed by Panel B on September 12, 2023, and the order affirming the
summary suspension, issued September 27, 2023. Dr. Gucwa’s prior disciplinary history
with the Board is set forth in the January 4, 2024, Consent Order.
included: enrolling in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”) and
participating in all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP.
The Consent Order also provided that after the minimum period of one-year, Dr. Gucwa
could submit a written petition to terminate the suspension, upon the Board’s receipt of a
report from MPRP that she had complied with all of MPRP’s requirements and was safe to
return to the practice of medicine. In addition, the Consent Order provided that, if the Panel
determined that Dr. Gucwa could safely return to the practice of medicine, the suspension
may be terminated through an order of the Panel, and the Panel may impose any terms and
conditions it deemed appropriate to Dr. Gucwa’s return to practice, including, but not
limited to, probation and continuation of her enrollment in MPRP.

On January 3, 2025, Dr. Gucwa filed a petition to terminate her suspension. MPRP
endorsed her return to clinical practice.

On February 26, 2025, Dr. Gucwa appeared before Panel B for consideration of her
petition. Panel B reviewed Dr. Gucwa’s file and heard oral presentations from the Board’s
probation analyst, from Dr. Gucwa, and from the administrative prosecutor for the State.

Panel B finds that Dr. Gucwa has complied with the terms of the January 4, 2024,
Consent Order and that it is safe for her to return to the practice of medicine and issues this
Order Terminating Suspension and Imposing Probation (“Order”),

ORDER
It is, thus, by Disciplinary Panel B, hereby
ORDERED that the suspension imposed by the January 4, 2024 Consent Order is

TERMINATED; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Guewa is placed on PROBATION? for a minimum period of

FIVE YEARS, beginning on the date this Order goes into effect. During the probationary

period, Dr. Gucwa shall comply with the following terms and conditions of probation:

Dr. Guewa shall remain enrolled in MPRP as follows:

(a)

(b)

(d)

(e)

Dr. Gucwa shall continue her Participant Rehabilitation Agreement
and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP, or be entered into an
amended or superseding Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan, as determined by MPRP;

Dr. Gucwa shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all
MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited
to, the terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered into with
MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy,
treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP;

Dr. Gucwa shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms
to authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the
Board and to authorize the Board to disclose relevant information
from MPRP records and files in a public order. Dr. Gucwa shall not
withdraw her release/consent;

Dr. Guewa shall also sign any written release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from)
outside entities (including all of Dr. Gucwa’s current therapists and
treatment providers) verbal and written information concerning Dr.
Gucwa and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical
records of Dr. Guewa, including, but not limited to, mental health and
drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment records, Dr. Guewa shall not
withdraw her release/consent; and

Dr. Gucwa’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or
conditions, including the terms or conditions of the Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s)
constitutes a violation of this Order; and it is further

* If Dr. Gucwa’s license expires during the period of probation, the probation and any conditions will be

tolled.
ORDERED that if, upon the authorization of MPRP, Dr. Gucwa transfers to a
rehabilitation program in another state, Dr. Gucwa’s failure to comply with any term or
condition of that state’s rehabilitation program constitutes a violation of this Order. Dr.
Gucwa shall also sign any out-of-state written release/consent forms to authorize the Board
to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) the out-of-state program verbal and
written information concerning Dr. Gucwa, and to ensure that the Board is authorized to
receive the medical records of Dr. Gucwa, including, but not limited to, mental health and
drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment records. Dr. Gucwa shall not withdraw the
release/consent; and it is further

ORDERED that a violation of probation constitutes a violation of this Order; and
it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Guewa shall not apply for early termination of probation; and
it is further

ORDERED that after Dr. Gucwa has fully and satisfactorily complied with all
terms and conditions of probation, and the minimum period of probation imposed by this
Order has passed, Dr. Gucwa may submit a written petition for termination of probation,
After consideration of the petition, the probation may be terminated through an order of a
disciplinary panel. Dr. Gucwa may be required to appear before the disciplinary panel to
discuss her petition for termination. The disciplinary panel may grant the petition to
terminate the probation through an order of the disciplinary panel, if Dr. Gucwa has

successfully complied with all of the probationary terms and conditions and if there are no

pending complaints related to the charges that led to the January 4, 2024 Consent Order;
and it is further

ORDERED that, if Dr. Gucwa allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition
imposed by this Order, Dr. Gucwa shall be given notice and an opportunity for a hearing.
If the disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the
hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative
Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel; and if the
disciplinary panel determines there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, Dr. Gucwa
shall be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines
that Dr. Guewa has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this Order, the
disciplinary panel may reprimand Dr. Gucwa, place Dr. Gucwa on probation with
appropriate terms and conditions, suspend Dr. Gucwa’s medical license with appropriate
terms and conditions, or revoke Dr. Gucwa’s license to practice medicine in Maryland.
The disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above,
impose a civil monetary fine on Dr. Gucwa; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Gucwa is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the
terms and conditions of this Order; and it is further

ORDERED that this Order goes into effect on the date the Order is signed by the
Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive Director or her designee
signs the Order on behalf of Disciplinary Panel B, which has imposed the terms and

conditions of this Order; and it is further
ORDERED that this Order is a public document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-

411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6). (Repl. Vol. 2021).

Signature On File
Christine A. Farrelly U)

Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians

03 /iofa02rs

Date
