IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

DARRELL E. LEWIS, M.D. * STATE BOARD OF
Respondent * PHYSICIANS
License Number: D76104 * Case Number: 7724-0013 B
* * * * * * * * * * * * * *

FINAL DECISION AND ORDER

On June 12, 2023, Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of
Physicians (the “Board”) charged Darrell E. Lewis, M.D., License Number D76104, with
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, being professionally, physically, or mentally
incompetent, willfully making or filing a false report in the practice of medicine, willfully making
a misrepresentation in treatment, and selling, prescribing, giving away, or administering drugs for
illegal or illegitimate medical purposes. See Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) § 14-
404(a) (3)(ii), (4), (11), (17) and (27). On August 18, 2023, Dr. Lewis resolved the charges against
him through a Consent Order with Panel B that reprimanded him and suspended his medical
license for a minimum of one year and until the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program
(“MPRP”) notified the Board that he was safe to return to the practice of medicine. On August
30, 2024, Panel B charged Dr. Lewis for violating the terms of his Consent Order by testing
positive for an illicit substance in violation of his Participant Rehabilitation Agreement he entered
into with MPRP.

The case was forwarded to the Office of Administrative Hearings (“OAH”) for an
evidentiary hearing and a proposed decision on whether Dr. Lewis violated the Consent Order he
entered into with the Panel. On January 28, 2025, a hearing was held before an Administrative
Law Judge (“ALJ”) at OAH. At the hearing, the State presented testimony from two witnesses

and Dr. Lewis represented himself and testified on his own behalf.
On April 25, 2025, the ALJ issued a proposed decision concluding that Dr. Lewis ingested
an illegal substance in violation of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement he entered into with
MPRP and the Consent Order he entered into with the Panel. The ALJ recommended that Dr.
Lewis’s license be suspended for a minimum of one year from the time he activates his license and
until he successfully completes a rehabilitation plan with MPRP.!

Neither party filed exceptions to the ALJ’s proposed decision. On June 11, 2025, this
matter came before Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Board. Panel A has considered the
record in this case, including the proposed decision of the ALJ, and now issues this order based on
Panel A’s findings of fact and conclusions of law. See COMAR 10.32.02.05B(4).

FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel A adopts the ALJ’s proposed joint factual stipulations, numbered | — 11, and the
proposed findings of fact, numbered | - 12. See ALJ proposed decision, attached as Exhibit 1.
These facts are incorporated by reference into the body of this document as if set forth in full.
Neither party filed exceptions to any of the factual findings and the factual findings were proved
by a preponderance of the evidence. The Panel also adopts the ALJ’s discussion set forth on pages
7-13. The discussion section is incorporated by reference into the body of this document as if set
forth in full.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the Findings of Fact, Disciplinary Panel A of the Board concludes as a matter of

law that Dr. Lewis violated the August 18, 2023 Consent Order he entered into with Panel B.

' Dr. Lewis’s license expired on September 30, 2024.
SANCTION

Neither party filed exceptions to the ALJ’s proposed sanction of a minimum of one-year

suspension with continued enrollment in MPRP. The Panel adopts the ALJ’s proposed sanction.
ORDER

It is thus by Disciplinary Panel A of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that Darrell E. Lewis, M.D. is REPRIMANDED; and it is further

ORDERED that the suspension imposed in the August 18, 2023 Consent Order is
terminated; and it is further

ORDERED that the reprimand imposed in the August 18, 2023 Consent Order remains in
effect; and it is further

ORDERED that Dr. Lewis’s license to practice medicine in Maryland is SUSPENDED
for a minimum of ONE (1) YEAR.” During the suspension, Dr. Lewis shall comply with the
following terms and conditions of the suspension:

(1) Dr. Lewis shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (MPRP)

as follows:

(a) Within 5 business days, Dr. Lewis shall contact MPRP to schedule an initial
consultation for enrollment;

(b) Within 15 business days, Dr. Lewis shall enter into a Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

(c) Dr. Lewis shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP’s
referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and
conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully participate and
comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by
MPRP;

2 Dr. Lewis’s license expired on September 30, 2024. The suspension and any conditions will be tolled
until Dr. Lewis reinstates his license.
(d) Dr. Lewis shall sign and update the written release/consent forms requested by
the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board to
disclose relevant information from MPRP records and files in a public order.
Dr. Lewis shall not withdraw his release/consent;

(e) Dr. Lewis shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize MPRP
to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities (including
all of Dr. Lewis’s current therapists and treatment providers) verbal and
written information concerning Dr. Lewis and to ensure that MPRP is
authorized to receive the medical records of Dr. Lewis, including, but not
limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment records.
Dr. Lewis shall not withdraw his release/consent;

(f) If, upon the authorization of MPRP, Dr. Lewis transfers to a rehabilitation
program in another state, Dr. Lewis’s failure to comply with any term or
condition of the out-of-state’s rehabilitation program, constitutes a violation of
this Order. Dr. Lewis shall also sign any out-of-state written release/consent
forms to authorize the Board to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive
from) the out-of-state program verbal and written information concerning Dr.
Lewis, and to ensure that the Board is authorized to receive the medical records
of Dr. Lewis, including, but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol
evaluation and treatment records. Dr. Lewis shall not withdraw his
release/consent;

(f) Dr. Lewis’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or conditions
including terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s)
or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation of this Order;

(2) During the suspension period, Dr. Lewis shall not:

(a) practice medicine;

(b) take any actions after the effective date of this Order to hold himself out to the
public as a current provider of medical services;

(c) authorize, allow or condone the use of Dr. Lewis’s name or provider number
by any health care practice or any other licensee or health care provider;

(d) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical
care facility in the State;

(e) prescribe or dispense medications; or

(f) perform any other act that requires an active medical license; and it is further
ORDERED that Dr. Lewis shall not apply for early termination of suspension; and it is
further;

ORDERED that after the minimum period of suspension imposed by this Order has passed
and Dr. Lewis has fully and satisfactorily complied with all terms and conditions for the suspension
and if MPRP finds, and notifies the Board, that Dr. Lewis is safe to return to the practice of
medicine, Dr. Lewis may submit a written petition to the disciplinary panel to terminate the
suspension of Dr. Lewis’s license. Dr. Lewis may be required to appear before the disciplinary
panel to discuss his petition for termination. If the disciplinary panel determines that it is safe for
Dr. Lewis to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension will be terminated through an order
of the disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may impose any terms and conditions it deems
appropriate on Dr. Lewis’s return to practice, including, but not limited to, probation and/or
continuation of Dr. Lewis’s enrollment in MPRP. If the disciplinary panel determines that it is not
safe for Dr. Lewis to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension shall be continued through
an order of the disciplinary panel for a length of time determined by the disciplinary panel, and the
disciplinary panel may impose any additional terms and conditions it deems appropriate; and it is
further

ORDERED that a violation of suspension constitutes a violation of this Order; and is
further

ORDERED that this Order shall not be amended or modified and future requests for
modification will not be considered; and it is further

ORDERED that if Dr. Lewis allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition
imposed by this Order, Dr. Lewis shall be given notice and an opportunity for a hearing. If there

is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge
of the Office of Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary
panel; and if there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, Dr. Lewis shall be given a show
cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is further
ORDERED that after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines that
Dr. Lewis has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this Order, the disciplinary
panel may reprimand Dr. Lewis, place Dr. Lewis on probation with appropriate terms and
conditions, or suspend or revoke Dr. Lewis’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. The
disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil
monetary fine on Dr. Lewis, and it is further
ORDERED that the effective date of the Order is the date the Order is signed by the
Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive Director signs the Order on behalf
of the disciplinary panel which has imposed the terms and conditions of this Order, and it is further
ORDERED that Dr. Lewis is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the terms and
conditions of this Order; and it is further
ORDERED that this Order is a public document. See Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 1-

607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

07 N4|2026 Signature On File

Date Christine A. Farrelly U} 4
Executive Director X
Maryland State Board of Physicians

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW
Pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-408, Dr. Lewis has the right to seek judicial
review of this Final Decision and Order. Any petition for judicial review shall be filed within
thirty (30) days from the date of mailing of this Final Decision and Order. The cover letter
accompanying this Order indicates the date the decision is mailed. Any petition for judicial review
shall be made as provided for in the Administrative Procedure Act, Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §
10-222 and Title 7, Chapter 200 of the Maryland Rules of Procedure.
If Dr. Lewis files a petition for judicial review, the Board is a party and should be served
with the court’s process at the following address:
Maryland State Board of Physicians
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
4201 Patterson Avenue
Baltimore, Maryland 21215
Notice of any petition should also be sent to the Board’s counsel at the following address:
Stacey Darin
Assistant Attorney General
Maryland Department of Health

300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21201
