IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

JONATHAN M. RATLIFF, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE

Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D0082519 * Case Number: 2225-0066
* * * * * * * * * ; * * * *

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION
OF LICENSE TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

OF LICENSE TO FRAC TUE
Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license of JONATHAN M. RATLIFF
MLD. (the “Respondent”), License Number D0082519, to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland.
Panel A takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann., State
Gov’t § 10-226(c) (2021 Repl. Vol. & 2023 Supp.) and COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7),

concluding that the public health, safety or welfare imperatively requires emergency action.

INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS

Based on information received by, and made known to Panel A, and the
investigatory information obtained by, received by and made known to and available to
Panel A, including the instances described below, Panel A has reason to believe that the

following facts are true:!

| The statements regarding Panel A’s investigative findings are intended to provide the Respondent with
notice of the basis of the suspension. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent, a complete
description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the Respondent in
connection with this matter.
1. At all times relevant hereto, the Respondent was and is licensed to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland”. The Respondent was originally licensed to practice
medicine in Maryland on October 18, 2016, under License Number D0082519. The

Respondent’s license is current through September 30, 2025.

2. The Respondent is board-certified in emergency medicine.
THE COMPLAINT
3. On or about August 15, 2024, the Board received a letter known as a

Mandated 10-Day Report? (the “Report”) from the Respondent’s former employer
(“Employer”) a Medical Practice Group in Maryland, stating that “[Employer] believes
that Dr. Ratliff is currently unable to safely practice medicine. His employment with
[Employer] was involuntarily terminated on July 25, 2024.”

BOARD INVESTIGATION

4, On receipt of the Complaint, the Board initiated an investigation into the
allegation. As part of its investigation, Board staff conducted interviews and subpoenaed
records including the Respondent’s employment files, Respondent’s medical records, and

medical records of patients.

2 The Respondent is also licensed in the District of Columbia. His medical licenses in California and Virginia are
currently expired.

3 The Maryland Code Annotated, Health Occupations Article (“Health Occ.”) §§14-413(a)(2)(i) and 14-414(a)(2)(i)
require that within 10 days of an action hospitals, related institutions, and alternative health systems (“facilities”)
report any action taken against a licensed physician which denies, restricts, limits, changes, removes, terminates,
suspends, or places any conditions or restrictions on the privileges and/or salaried or contractual employment of the
physician for reasons that might be grounds for disciplinary action under provisions of Health Occ. §14-404.

2.

sereeenenen
5. The Board’s investigation revealed that the Respondent had missed work and
that he had been suffering from alcohol dependency, which led to multiple hospitalizations
starting in 2021.

6. On or about December 12, 2023, the Respondent was assigned to work the
Emergency Care Management (ECM) shift. His responsibilities included consulting with
nurses and physicians regarding patient care and making decisions regarding the transfer
of patients to appropriate facilities. During the shift, the Respondent was sent medical
information and patient charts for review. However, his notes were incomplete, unclear
and failed to address the questions posed to him and contained grammatical errors. The
Respondent’s notes lacked essential clinical information, including patient history, vital
signs, and documentation of consults with the emergency room physicians, raising concern
regarding the Respondent’s ability to safely practice medicine.

Te On or about December 14, 2023, the Respondent was scheduled to work the
ECM schedule from 6 am to 4 pm. Around noon the Respondent abandoned his shift,
ceased responding to calls, and staff were unable to reach him. The Respondent failed to
notify anyone that he left his shift resulting in delays of patient treatment.

8. The Respondent was eventually contacted in the evening by his Chief
Supervisor (“Physician A”) and told his supervisor that he left because his dog was sick.
Physician A described the Respondent’s behavior as incoherent, rambling, and repetitive,
suggesting that the Respondent appeared to be under the influence. A welfare check was
conducted by a co-worker physician (“Physician B”), who observed multiple empty wine

bottles at the Respondent’s residence and disposed of them.

3
9. On or about December 16, 2023, the Respondent was admitted to a local
hospital for acute medical conditions. Per the local police authority, the Respondent’s
apartment was disheveled with multiple empty liquor bottles and unsanitary conditions.

10. The Medical Group therefore removed the Respondent from the work
schedule and instructed him to seek treatment for his condition. After he was removed from
the work schedule, the Respondent contacted his direct report supervisor (“Physician C”)
via text and phone calls during which he exhibited signs of intoxication, including slurred
speech, disorganized thinking and repetition.

11. In April 2024, as a condition for the Respondent's return to work, the Medical
Group referred him to a program (the “Program”) for an independent evaluation to assess
his fitness to practice medicine safely. On or about May 23, 2024, the clinical team at the
Program concluded that the Respondent, “is not currently safe to practice and he needs
sustained, intensive . . . treatment” to address his condition.

12. In July 2024, Physician A reported that she had received calls from the
Respondent in the middle of the night and that he appeared intoxicated during the
conversations.

13. The Respondent failed to comply with the conditions for his return to work
and he was terminated on July 25, 2024.

14. In a letter dated September 4, 2024, Board staff requested that the
Respondent provide a response to the assertion in the Report that he was involuntarily

terminated due to concern regarding his ability to practice medicine safely.

a
15. The Respondent, through legal counsel, submitted a response to the Board
dated September 11, 2024, in which he acknowledged his alcohol dependence and stated
that he was undergoing treatment for his condition.

16. Onorabout October 1, 2024, the Respondent was interviewed by the Board.
During the interview, he acknowledged suffering from alcoholism and another medical
condition, admitted to consuming large amounts of alcohol, and stated that he had sought
treatment for his condition. He also acknowledged that that he abandoned his December
14, 2023, shift without notifying anyone that he was leaving.

17. On or about August 22, 2023, the Respondent completed his 2023 license
renewal application (the “Application”) and electronically submitted it to the Board. Part
2 of the Application contains a section titled “Character and Fitness Questions,” requiring
the Respondent to answer “YES” or “NO” to a series of questions for the period since July
21, 2021. The Respondent answered “NO” to Question 10, which states “Do you currently
have any condition or impairment (including but not limited to, substance abuse, alcohol
abuse, or a physical, mental, emotional, or nervous disorder or condition) that in any way
affects your ability to practice your profession in a safe, competent, ethical and professional
manner?

18. At the conclusion of the application, the Respondent certified that he
personally reviewed all responses to the items in the application and that the information

he provided was true and accurate to the best of his knowledge.

sergunreen
19. Five days after completing the Application, on or about August 27, 2023, the
Respondent was evaluated at a medical facility for a medical condition where he reported

that he has been drinking heavily for the past week, drinking a few bottles of wine per day.

CONCLUSION OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Investigative Findings, Panel A concludes that the public
health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires emergency action in this case, pursuant to
Mad. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) (2021 Repl. Vol. & 2023 Supp.) and COMAR
10.32.02.08B(7).

ORDER

It is, by a majority of a quorum of Panel A, hereby:

ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested in the Board by Md. Code Ann.,
State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) and COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7), the license of the Respondent,
Jonathan M. Ratliff, M.D., License Number D0082519, to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland is SUMMARILY SUSPENDED; and it is further

ORDERED that a post-deprivation hearing in accordance with COMAR
10.32.02.08B(7) and E has been scheduled for Wednesday, December 4, 2024, at 10:30
a.m. before Disciplinary Panel A at the Maryland State Board of Physicians, 4201
Patterson Avenue, Baltimore, Maryland 21215; and it is further

ORDERED that at the conclusion of the post-deprivation summary suspension
hearing held before Panel A, the Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the hearing,

may request within ten (10) days, an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be held within

eeremnecune
thirty (30) days of the request before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office of
Administrative Hearings, Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley,
Maryland 21031; and it is further

ORDERED that this Order for Summary Suspension is an order of Panel A and as
such, is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT. See Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Md.

Code Ann., Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

11/2Z2/202. CHEZ
Date Christine A. Cnasshinsy
Executive Director

Maryland State Board of Physicians

