IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

SCOTT C. MORAN, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D84252 * Case Number: 2224-0143B
CONSENT ORDER

On June 11, 2024, Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of
Physicians (the “Board”) charged SCOTT C. MORAN, M.D. (the “Respondent”),
License Number D84252, with violating the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”),
Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-101 ef seg. (2021 Repl. Vol. & 2023 Supp.).

Specifically, Panel B charged the Respondent with violating the following
provisions of the Act under Health Occ. § 14-404:

§ 14-404. Denials, reprimands, probation, suspensions, and revocations.

(a) In general. -- Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of
the quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee,
place any licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the
licensee:
(3) Is guilty of:
(ii) Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine; [and]
(4) Is professionally, physically, or mentally incompetent [.]
On August 28, 2024, Panel A was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for Case

Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter. Based on negotiations occurring as a result of this

DCCR, the Respondent agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of Findings of
Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, and Consent.
FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel B finds the following:

I. Background/Licensing Information

l. The Respondent was originally issued a license to practice medicine in
Maryland on October 2, 2017, under License Number D84252.' The Respondent’s license
expires on September 30, 2025, subject to renewal.

2. The Respondent is board certified in psychiatry and neurology psychiatry
with a subspecialty in geriatric psychiatry.

3. Atall relevant times, the Respondent practiced at a hospital (the “Hospital”?
in Maryland.

II. The Report

4, On or about March 26, 2024, the Board received a Mandated 10-Day Report
(the “Report”) from the Hospital.

5. The Report stated, among other things, that “in early February, [the
Respondent] began behaving erratically and sent several messages of a problematic nature”
to Hospital employees and the Respondent was placed on administrative leave.

6. The Board conducted an investigation into the Report and made

determinations as detailed below.

' On June 11, 2024, the Board summarily suspended the Respondent’s license.
? For confidentiality reasons, the names of health care facilities and individuals referenced herein, will not
be disclosed in this Consent Order.

Page 2 of 11
NOTARY
STATE OF (Macey. oo

CITY/COUNTY OF Movtibemeny

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this wes _ day of Sopkm hurb<r 2024, before
me, a Notary Public of the foregoing State and City/County, personally appeared Scott C.
Moran, M.D., and made oath in due form of law that signing the foregoing Consent Order

was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and notarial seal.

8 Notary Public
My Commission expires: 0! /20/2025~

“Ass
- >
a S
>
SS

wv

y
“aa

Page 11 of 11
Il. The Board’s Investigative Findings

7. The Board investigation revealed that the Respondent threatened his
supervisor and health care professionals at the Hospital. Based on the Respondent's threats,
a peace order is currently in effect until August 28, 2024, which, among other things, orders
the Respondent to stay away from the Hospital and to have no contact with his supervisor
and a Hospital employee. The Respondent was also diagnosed with a medical condition
which impacted his ability to practice medicine safely.

8. By letter dated February 2, 2024, the Respondent’s supervisor (the
“Supervisor”) notified the Respondent that Hospital management was taking disciplinary
action against him after they investigated a complaint and determined that he fostered a
hostile work environment with multiple behaviors violating Hospital policy.

9. On or around February 6, 2024, the Respondent messaged the Supervisor and
multiple Hospital employees. The Respondent used numerous expletives and made

statements including but not limited to:

a. “Tam going to have you arrested...[.]”

b. “You[‘re] gonna be in trouble and you are gonna get [MJoraned.”
c. “And you ain’t gonna beat me. I don’t lose.” |

d. “You don’t know what I use to do in the military.”

e. “Take care, [expletive], see you on the other side.”

10. On or about February 7, 2024, the Supervisor and a Hospital employee (the

“Employee”) petitioned for and were granted a temporary peace order.

Page 3 of 1
ll. On or about February 28, 2024, a District Court of Maryland for Baltimore
County judge granted the Supervisor and the Employee a final peace order (the “Peace
Order”) which is effective until August 28, 2024.3

12. The Peace Order stated, among other things, that the Respondent shall not
contact or harass the Supervisor or the Employee and that the Respondent shall stay away
from the Hospital and the Supervisor’s place of employment. The Peace Order also ordered
that the Respondent shall not possess firearms."

13. Medical and health records obtained for the Respondent’ stated, among other
things, that on or around February 7, 2024, the Respondent was diagnosed with a medical
condition which required medical treatment.6 The medical condition impacted the
Respondent’s conduct, as described above, and his ability to practice medicine safely.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Disciplinary Panel B concludes as a matter
of law that the Respondent: is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine,
in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)3)(ii); and is professionally, physically or mentally

incompetent, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(4).

* The Respondent was represented by counsel and consented to the Peace Order.

‘The Board’s investigation determined that the Respondent kept a firearm at his residence before the Peace
Order was granted.

*On or around April 3, 2024, the Board notified the Respondent about the Board investigation. On or around
April 12, 2024, the Respondent emailed the Board and, among other things, authorized the release of his
medical and health records to the Board.

° For confidentiality reasons, specific information in the Respondent's medical and health records, includin g
but not limited to evaluations and diagnoses, will not be disclosed in this Consent Order.

Page 4 of 11
ORDER

It is, thus, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Panel B, hereby:

ORDERED that the Order for the Summary Suspension of License to Practice
Medicine (“Order for Summary Suspension”) issued against the Respondent, on June 11,
2024, is terminated as moot based on the suspension ordered in this Consent Order; and it
is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is REPRIMANDED; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland is
SUSPENDED for a minimum period of ONE (1) YEAR’ from the effective date of this
Consent Order. During the suspension, the Respondent shall comply with the following
terms and conditions:

(1) During the suspension period, the Respondent shall not:

(a) practice medicine;

(b) take any actions after the effective date of this Order to hold himself out to
the public as a current provider of medical services;

(c) authorize, allow or condone the use of the Respondent’s name or provider
number by any health care practice or any other licensee or health care

provider;

(d) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical
care facility in the state;

(e) prescribe or dispense medications; or

(f) perform any other act that requires an active medical license.

"Ifthe Respondent's license expires during the period of the suspension, the suspension and any conditions
will be tolled.

Page 5 of 11
(2) The Respondent shall enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation
Program (“MPRP”) as follows:

(a) Within 5 business days, the Respondent shall contact MPRP to schedule an
initial consultation for enrollment;

(b) Within 15 business days, the Respondent shall enter into a Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP;

(c) the Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP’s
referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and
conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant
Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with MPRP, and shall fully participate and
comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by
MPRP;

(d) the Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the
Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP records and files in a public
order, The Respondent shall not withdraw the release/consent;

(e) the Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities
(including all of the Respondent’s current therapists and treatment providers)
verbal and written information concerning the Respondent and to ensure that
MPRP is authorized to receive the medical records of the Respondent, including,
but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment
records. The Respondent shall not withdraw the release/consent;

(f) if, upon the authorization of MPRP, the Respondent transfers to a
rehabilitation program in another state, the Respondent's failure to comply with
any term or condition of that state’s rehabilitation program, constitutes a
violation of this Consent Order. The Respondent shall also sign any out-of-state
written release/consent forms to authorize the Board to exchange with (i.c.,
disclose to and receive from) the out-of-state program verbal and written
information concerning the Respondent, and to ensure that the Board is
authorized to receive the medical records of the Respondent, including, but not
limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment records.
The Respondent shall not withdraw the release/consent;

Page 6 of 11
(g) the Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or
conditions, including terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s), constitutes a violation of this
Consent Order; and it is further
ORDERED that a violation of suspension constitutes a violation of this Consent
Order; and it is further
ORDERED that the Respondent shall not apply for early termination of the
suspension; and it is further
ORDERED that after the Respondent has complied with all terms and conditions
of the suspension, and the minimum one (1) year suspension period has concluded, and if
MPRP finds and notifies the Board that it is safe for the Respondent to return to the practice
of medicine, the Respondent may submit a written petition to the disciplinary panel to
terminate the suspension of the Respondent’s license. A Board disciplinary panel will
determine whether the suspension is terminated. The Respondent may be required to appear
before the disciplinary panel to discuss his petition. If the disciplinary panel determines
that it is safe for the Respondent to return to the practice of medicine, the suspension will
be terminated, and the disciplinary panel will issue an order with the terms and conditions
it determines are reasonable and appropriate on the Respondent’s return to practice, which
may include, but are not limited to, probation, with probationary terms and conditions, and
the Respondent’s continued participation in MPRP. If, afler considering MPRP’s
determination that it is safe for the Respondent to return to the practice of medicine, the
disciplinary panel determines that it is not safe for the Respondent to return to the practice

of medicine, the suspension shall remain in effect under the terms and conditions the

Page 7 of 11
disciplinary panel finds reasonable and appropriate under the circumstances, and it is
further
ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Consent Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an
opportunity for a hearing. If there is a genuine dispute as to a material fact, the hearing
shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of Administrative Hearings
followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel; and if there is no genuine
dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before a
disciplinary panel; and it is further
ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel
determines that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed
by this Consent Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or impose a further
suspension of the Respondent’s medical license with appropriate terms and conditions,
or revoke the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary
panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil
monetary fine on the Respondent; and it is further
ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling
the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent

Page 8 of 11
Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive
Director signs the Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which has imposed
the terms and conditions of this Consent Order, and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Md. Code Ann.,

Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

hs) Signature On File
011$/2024 _

Page 9 of 11
CONSENT

I, Scott C. Moran, M.D., acknowledge that I have consulted with counsel before
signing this document.

By the Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the disciplinary panel will not entertain any request for
amendments or modifications to any condition.

I assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. 14-405, and Md. Code Ann., State Gov't 10-201 ef seg. concerning
the pending charges. I waive this right and have elected to sign this Consent Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all
other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those procedural
and substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the
disciplinary panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order.

I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth
in the Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the Findings
of Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in the Consent Order. I waive all rights
to appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand the language
and meaning of its terms.

, Signature On File
Gtele$

Date Scdft C. Moran, M.D.

Page 10 of 11
