IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND

SCOTT C. MORAN, M.D. * STATE BOARD OF
Respondent * PHYSICIANS

License Number: D84252 * Case Number: 2224-0143 B

* * * x * * * * * * * * *

ORDER FOR SUMMARY SUSPENSION OF LICENSE
TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby SUMMARILY SUSPENDS the license to practice medicine of SCOTT
CAMPBELL MORAN, M.D. (the “Respondent”), License Number D84252, in the State
of Maryland. Panel B takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann.,
State Gov’t §10-226(c)(2)(2021 Repl. Vol. and 2023 Supp.) and Md. Code Regs.
(*COMAR”) 10.32.02.08B(7), concluding that the public health, safety, or welfare
imperatively requires emergency action.

INVESTIGATIVE FINDINGS

Based on information received by, and made known to Panel B, and the
investigatory information obtained by, received by, and made known to and available to
Panel B, including the instances described below, Panel B has reason to believe that the

following facts are true:!

' The statements regarding the Respondent’s conduct are intended to provide the Respondent with
reasonable notice of the basis of Panel B’s action. They are not intended as, and do not necessarily represent,
a complete description of the evidence, either documentary or testimonial, to be offered against the
Respondent in connection with this matter.
Introduction
Panel B is summarily suspending the Respondent’s license to practice medicine
after a Board investigation revealed that the Respondent threatened his supervisor and
health care professionals at the hospital where he is employed. Based on the Respondent's
threats, a peace order is currently in effect until August 28, 2024, which, among other
things, orders the Respondent to stay away from the hospital and to have no contact with
his supervisor and a hospital employee. The Respondent was also diagnosed with a medical
condition which impacts his ability to practice medicine safely.
Background/Licensing Information
I. The Respondent was originally issued a license to practice medicine in
Maryland on October 2, 2017, under License Number D84252. The Respondent's license
expires on September 30, 2025, subject to renewal.
2. The Respondent is board certified in psychiatry and neurology with a

subspecialty in geriatric psychiatry.

3. At all relevant times, the Respondent practiced at a hospital (the “Hospital”)?
in Maryland.
The Report
4, The Board initiated an investigation of the Respondent after receiving a

Mandated 10-Day Report (the “Report’’) from the Hospital on March 26, 2024.

2 For confidentiality reasons, the names of health care facilities and individuals referenced herein, will not
be disclosed in this document. The Respondent may obtain this information from the administrative
prosecutor.
5. The Report stated, among other things, that “in early February, [the
Respondent] began behaving erratically and sent several messages of a problematic nature”
to Hospital employees and the Respondent was placed on administrative leave.

The Board Investigation

6. By letter dated February 2, 2024, the Respondent’s supervisor (the
“Supervisor”) notified the Respondent that Hospital management was taking disciplinary
action against him after they investigated a complaint and determined that he fostered a
hostile work environment with multiple behaviors violating Hospital policy.

7. On or around February 6, 2024, the Respondent messaged the Supervisor and
multiple Hospital employees. The Respondent used numerous expletives and made

statements including but not limited to:

a. “Tam going to have you arrested...[.]”

b. “You[‘re] gonna be in trouble and you are gonna get [M]oraned.”
c. “And you ain’t gonna beat me. I don’t lose.”

d. “You don’t know what | use to do in the military.”

e. “Take care, [expletive], see you on the other side.”

8. On or about February 7, 2024, the Supervisor and a Hospital Employee (the

“Employee”) petitioned for and were granted a temporary peace order.
9. On or about February 28, 2024, a District Court of Maryland for Baltimore
County judge granted the Supervisor and the Employee a final peace order (the “Peace
Order”) which is effective until August 28, 2024.3

10. The Peace Order stated, among other things, that the Respondent shall not
contact or harass the Supervisor or Employee and that the Respondent shall stay away from
the Hospital and the Supervisor’s place of employment. The Peace Order also ordered that
the Respondent shall not possess firearms.*

11. Medical and health records obtained for the Respondent’ stated, among other
things, that on or around February 7, 2024, the Respondent was diagnosed with a medical
condition which required medical treatment.6 The medical condition impacts the
Respondent's ability to practice medicine safely.

CONCLUSION OF LAW

Based upon the foregoing Investigative Findings, Panel B of the Board concludes
that the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires emergency action, and that
pursuant to State Gov’t § 10-226(c)(2) and COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7), the Respondent's

license is summarily suspended.

* The Respondent was represented by counsel and consented to the Peace Order.

“ The Board’s investigation determined that the Respondent kept a firearm at his residence before the Peace
Order was granted.

> On or around April 3, 2024, the Board notified the Respondent about the Board investigation. On or
around April 12, 2024, the Respondent emailed the Board and, among other things, authorized the release
of his medical and health records to the Board.

* For confidentiality reasons, specific information in the Respondent’s medical and health records, including
but not limited to evaluations and diagnoses, will not be disclosed in this document. This information will
be disclosed to the Respondent upon request.
ORDER

IT IS thus, by Panel B of the Board, hereby:

ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested in Panel B by State Govt. § 10-
226(c)(2)(2021 Repl. Vol. and 2023 Supp.) and COMAR 10.32.02.08B(7), the
Respondent's license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland is hereby
SUMMARILY SUSPENDED; and it is further

ORDERED that, during the course of the summary suspension, the Respondent
shall not practice medicine in the State of Maryland; and it is further

ORDERED that in accordance with Md. Code Regs. 10.32.02.08B(7) and E, a
post-deprivation hearing on the summary suspension will be held on Wednesday, June
25, 2024, at 11:30 a.m. at the Board's offices, located at 4201 Patterson Avenue,
Baltimore, Maryland, 21215-0095; and it is further

ORDERED that after the SUMMARY SUSPENSION hearing before Panel B,
the Respondent, if dissatisfied with the result of the hearing, may request, within ten ( 10)
days, an evidentiary hearing, such hearing to be set within thirty (30) days of the request,
before an Administrative Law Judge at the Office of Administrative. Hearings,
Administrative Law Building, 11101 Gilroy Road, Hunt Valley, Maryland 21031-1301;
and it is further

ORDERED that a copy of the Order for Summary Suspension shall be filed by
Panel B immediately in accordance with Health Occ. § 14-407 (2021 Repl. Vol. and 2023

Supp.); and it is further
ORDERED that this is a disciplinary Order of Panel B, and as such, is a public
document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. § 4-

333(b)(6).

j ure On File
06 [I /2Z0Z4 Signat O
Dat Christine A. Fabrelly Ejecutive Piecor
Maryland State Boar_éf Physicigns
