IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

KERI M. BENTLEY, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D88987 * Case Number: 2223-0099
* ® * * * * * * x * * x *
ORDER OF DEFAULT

On August 22, 2023, Disciplinary Panel B of the Maryland State Board of
Physicians (“Board”) charged Keri M. Bentley, M.D. (“Dr. Bentley” or “the Respondent”)
with fraudulently or deceptively obtaining or attempting to obtain a license for the applicant
or licensee, see Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(1); unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine, see Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i); willfully making or filing a false
report or record in the practice of medicine, see Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(11); and willfully
making a false representation when seeking or making application for licensure or any
other application related to the practice of medicine, see Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(36). On
October 26, 2023, the case was referred to the Office of Administrative Hearings (“OAH”)
for an evidentiary hearing.

On November 1, 2023, OAH sent a Notice of Remote Scheduling Conference to the
parties that informed Dr. Bentley that a Scheduling Conference would be held on
December 18, 2023, at 9:30 a.m., by video-conference. The scheduling conference notice
was sent to Dr. Bentley at her address of record by regular and certified mail. Dr. Bentley

signed the certified mail receipt, on November 6, 2023, which was returned to OAH.
On December 18, 2023, at 9:32 a.m., the Administrative Law Judge (“ALJ”)
commenced the Scheduling Conference by video-conference. Dr. Bentley was not present.
The ALJ recessed until 9:45 a.m. to allow Dr. Bentley additional time to appear. At 9:45
a.m., approximately fifteen minutes after the scheduled start time, the ALJ held the
Scheduling Conference. The administrative prosecutor appeared on behalf of the State.
Dr. Bentley did not appear, nor did anyone appear on her behalf. During the Scheduling
Conference, a Prehearing Conference was scheduled for February 5, 2024, at 9:30 a.m.

On December 19, 2023, the ALJ issued a Scheduling Order notifying the parties
that the Prehearing Conference would be held on February 5, 2024, at 9:30 a.m., by video-
conference. The Scheduling Order was sent by regular mail to the same address of record
on file at which Dr. Bentley signed the certified mail receipt for the notice of scheduling
conference. On December 20, 2023, OAH also sent a Notice of Remote Prehearing
Conference to the parties that notified the parties that a Prehearing Conference would be
held on February 5, 2024, at 9:30 a.m. The Notice of Prehearing Conference informed Dr.
Bentley that the failure to appear or to give timely notice of her inability to appear at the
Prehearing Conference could result in a decision against her. The Notice was mailed by
regular first-class mail to Dr. Bentley’s address of record. The mailed copy was not
returned as undeliverable.

On February 5, 2024, the ALJ held the Prehearing Conference by video-conference.
The administrative prosecutors appeared on behalf of the State. Dr. Bentley did not appear.

At 9:50 a.m., after waiting twenty minutes after the scheduled start time for Dr. Bentley to
appear, the ALJ commenced the Prehearing Conference. The State made a motion for
default against Dr. Bentley.

Under OAH’s rules of procedure, “[i]f, after receiving proper notice as provided in
Regulation .OSC of this chapter, a party fails to attend or participate, either personally or
through a representative, in a Prehearing Conference, hearing, or other stage of a
proceeding, the ALJ may proceed in that party’s absence or may, in accordance with the
hearing authority delegated by the agency, issue a final or proposed default order against
the defaulting party.” COMAR 28.02.01.23A.

On February 9, 2024, the ALJ issued a Proposed Default Order. The ALJ found
that Dr. Bentley had proper notice of the February 5, 2024, remote Prehearing Conference
and that she failed to appear or participate. The ALJ proposed that the Panel find Dr.
Bentley in default, adopt as findings of fact the statements set forth in the allegations of
fact section of the charges, and conclude as a matter of law that Dr. Bentley violated Health
Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii). The ALJ did not propose a sanction.

The ALJ mailed, by regular first-class mail, copies of the Proposed Default Order
to Dr. Bentley, the administrative prosecutor, and the Board at each respective address of
record. The Proposed Default Order notified the parties that they may file written
exceptions to the Proposed Default Order but must do so within 15 days of the date of the
Proposed Default Order. The Proposed Default Order stated that any exceptions and

requests for a hearing must be sent to the Board with a copy provided to the opposing party.
Neither party filed exceptions. On April 10, 2024, this case came before Disciplinary Panel
A (“Panel A”) of the Board for final disposition.
FINDINGS OF FACT

Because Panel A concludes that Dr. Bentley has defaulted and has not filed
exceptions to the ALJ’s Proposed Default Order, the following findings of fact are adopted
from the allegations of fact in the charging document and are deemed proven by the
preponderance of the evidence:

L Background

1. The Respondent was originally issued a license to practice medicine in
Maryland on or about March 2, 2020, under License Number D88987. The Respondent's
most recent Maryland license had the expiration date of September 30, 2024.

2. The Respondent is licensed in Alabama, Arizona, Colorado, Connecticut,
Delaware, Florida, Georgia, lowa, Kentucky, Montana, North Dakota, Ohio, and
Tennessee.

3. The Respondent is board-certified in family medicine.

Il. The Complaint

4. On or around April 11, 2023, the Board received a disciplinary alert (the
“Complaint”) from the Federation of State Medical Boards which stated that the Iowa State
Board of Medicine had suspended the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Iowa.

5. The Board conducted an investigation into the Complaint and found that the

Respondent submitted a License Renewal Application (the “Application”) to the Board
where she failed to disclose that she had pending criminal charges. The Board made
specific determinations, as detailed below.
Ill. Board Investigation
6. On March 4, 2021, the Respondent was indicted on felony charges (the
“Charges”) by a grand jury in the U.S. District Court in the Eastern District of Kentucky
in United States of America v. Taylor et al, Case No. 6:21-CR-13-REW. The Charges
included but were not limited to: Conspiracy to Distribute Buprenorphine;
Benzodiazepines; Conspiracy to Falsify Medical Records; Conspiracy to Commit Wire and
Health Care Fraud; and Conspiracy to Commit Money-Laundering.
7. On or about September 26, 2022, the Board received the Respondent’s
License Renewal Application (the “Application”).
8. In the section of the Application entitled, Character and Fitness Questions,
the Respondent was instructed to respond “YES” or “NO” to a series of questions.
9. The Respondent answered “NO” to QUESTION (9), which asks:
Are there any charges pending against you in any court
of law, are you currently under arrest, released pending

trial with or without bond, or is there an outstanding
warrant for your arrest?

10. On August 11, 2023, the Respondent was convicted of the Charges. She was
scheduled to be sentenced on December 4, 2023.
CONCLUSIONS OF LAW
Panel A finds Dr. Bentley in default based upon her failure to appear or participate
at the Prehearing Conference on February 5, 2024 at OAH. See State Gov’t § 10-210(4).

5
Based upon the foregoing findings of fact, Panel A concludes that Dr. Bentley: fraudulently
or deceptively obtained or attempted to obtain a license for the applicant or licensee, in
violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(1); is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice
of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii); willfully made or filed a false
report or record in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(11);
and willfully made a false representation when seeking or making application for licensure
or any other application related to the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. §
14-404(a)(36).
SANCTION

Based on the entirety of the findings of fact, Panel A concludes that the revocation

of Dr. Bentley’s license to practice medicine in Maryland is warranted.
ORDER

It is, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Panel A, hereby

ORDERED that the license of Keri M. Bentley, M.D. to practice medicine in
Maryland is REVOKED; and it is further

ORDERED that this Order of Default goes into effect upon the signature of the
Board’s Executive Director or her designee. The Board’s Executive Director or her
designee signs this Order of Default on behalf of Panel A; and it is further

ORDERED that this is a public document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-

411.1(b)(2), and Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).
Signature On File
0b} 12-202.
Date’ Christine A. Farrelly! Executive Direct
Maryland State Board of Physicians
NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW
Pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-408, Dr. Bentley has the right to seek
judicial review of this Order of Default. Any petition for judicial review shall be filed
within thirty (30) days from the date of mailing of this Order of Default. The date of the
cover letter accompanying this Order is the date the decision was mailed. Any petition for
judicial review shall be made as provided for in the Administrative Procedure Act, Md.
Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-222 and Title 7, Chapter 200 of the Maryland Rules of
Procedure.
If Dr. Bentley files a petition for judicial review, the Board is a party and should be
served with the court’s process at the following address:
Maryland State Board of Physicians
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
4201 Patterson Avenue
Baltimore, Maryland 21215
Notice of any petition should also be sent to the Board’s counsel at the following
address:
David Finkler
Assistant Attorney General
Maryland Department of Health

300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21201
