IN THE MATTER OF

JONATHAN E. REITZENSTEIN, M.D.

Respondent

License Number: D0099120

* * * * * * *

BEFORE THE

MARYLAND STATE

BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

Case Number: 2224-0136A

* * * * *

CONSENT ORDER

In or around December 2023, the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”)
initiated an investigation of JONATHAN E. REITZENSTEIN, M.D., License Number
D0099120, after determining that he failed to submit his Compact Supplement Application
(the “Supplement Application”) within thirty (30) days of obtaining a Maryland medical
license under the Interstate Medical Licensure Compact.
investigation, Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Board determined that it had
grounds to charge the Respondent with failing to comply with provisions under the

Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seq.

The pertinent provisions of the Act are as follows:

Health Occ. § 14-404. Denials, reprimands, probations, suspensions, and

revocations—Grounds.

(a) Jn general. — Subject to the hearing provisions of § 14-405 of this
subtitle, a disciplinary panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of
the quorum of the disciplinary panel, may reprimand any licensee,
place any licensee on probation, or suspend or revoke a license if the

licensee:

(43) Except for the licensure process described under Section 3A of
this title, violates any provision of this title, any rule or

At the conclusion of its
regulation adopted by the Board, or any State or federal law
pertaining to the practice of medicine [.]

Health Oce. § 14-313.1. Verification by compact physician regarding licensure.

(a) In general. — Within 30 days after receiving a request from the Board,
a compact physician shall provide to the Board verification, on a form
provided by the Board, that the compact physician satisfies the
requirements for licensure under this subtitle.

Prior to the issuance of disciplinary charges, the Respondent agreed to enter into
this Consent Order, consisting of Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, and
Consent.

FINDINGS OF FACT
Panel A finds the following facts:
Background/Licensing information

1, The Respondent’s state of principal licensure is in Michigan. The Michigan
Board of Medicine issued the Respondent a Michigan medical license on January 29, 2013,
under Michigan License Number 4301102168.

2. In or around 2023, the Respondent applied for a license to practice medicine
in Maryland through the Interstate Medical Licensure Compact (the “Compact’).

3. On or about December 6, 2023, the Board issued the Respondent a license to
practice medicine in Maryland under Maryland License Number D0099120.

4, At the time the Board issued the Respondent a license under the Compact, it

notified him of his obligation to complete the Supplement Application within thirty (30)

2
days. The Respondent did not complete the Supplement Application within thirty (0)
days, however.

5. Thereafter, the Board attempted to notify the Respondent on several
occasions of his obligation to complete the Supplement Application, using the email of
record he provided in his Compact application.

6. By email dated December 9, 2023, the Board notified the Respondent that
his Maryland licensure application was not complete because he had not completed his
Supplement Application. The Board notified the Respondent that his failure to complete
the Supplement Application within ten (10) business days could result in disciplinary
action, up to and including the revocation of his license. The Respondent did not respond
to the Board’s email or complete the Supplement Application at that time, however.

7. By email dated December 14, 2023, the Board notified the Respondent that
his Maryland licensure application was not complete because he had not completed his
Supplement Application. The Board notified the Respondent that his failure to complete
the Supplement Application within ten (10) business days could result in disciplinary
action, up to and including the revocation of his license. The Respondent did not respond
to the Board’s email or complete the Supplement Application at that time, however.

8. By email dated December 21, 2023, the Board notified the Respondent that
he had not completed his Supplement Application. The Board notified the Respondent that
his failure to complete the Supplement Application within ten (10) business days could

result in disciplinary action, up to and including the revocation of his license. The
Respondent did not respond to the Board’s email or complete the Supplement Application
at that time, however.

9. By email and letter dated February 2, 2024, the Board notified the
Respondent that it had opened an investigation based on his failure to complete the
Supplement Application as required under Health Occ. § 14-313.1. The Board advised the
Respondent to complete the Supplement Application immediately and notify the Board
that he had done so to avoid its issuance of disciplinary charges against him and the non-
renewal of his Compact license. The Respondent did not respond to the Board’s email or
letter, or complete the Supplement Application at that time, however.

10. To date, the Respondent has not completed the Supplement Application.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, Panel A concludes as a matter of law that
the Respondent failed to complete his Supplement Application, in violation of Health Occ.
§ 14-404(a)(43) and Health Occ. § 14-313.1(a).

ORDER

It is, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Panel A, hereby:

ORDERED that the Respondent is REPRIMANDED; and it is further

ORDERED that, within THIRTY (30) DAYS of the effective date of the Consent
Order, the Respondent shall pay a civil fine of FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS ($500.00).
The payment shall be by bank certified check or money order made payable to the

Maryland Board of Physicians, P.O. Box 37217, Baltimore, Maryland 21297. The Board
will not renew or reinstate the Respondent’s license if the Respondent fails to pay the fine;
and it is further; and it is further

ORDERED that, within TEN (10) BUSINESS DAYS of the effective date of the
Consent Order, the Respondent shall complete and file with the Board the Compact
Supplement Application or the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland will
be immediately suspended; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of the Consent Order is the date the Consent
Order is signed by the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive
Director or her designee signs the Consent Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which
has imposed the terms and conditions of this Consent Order; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-

607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

we hea ey Signature On File
Date Christine A. Farfehy{ eo Direffor
Maryland State Boar hysicians
CONSENT.

I, Jonathan E. Reitzenstein, M.D., acknowledge that I am aware of my right to
consult with and be represented by counsel in considering this Consent Order and in any
proceedings that would otherwise result from charges. I have chosen to proceed without
counsel and I] acknowledge that the decision to proceed without counsel is freely and
voluntarily made.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the Board will not entertain any request for amendments or
modifications to any condition.

I am aware of the right to a hearing before the Board pursuant to COMAR
10.32.22.06 concerning any disciplinary charges that could have been issued against me. I
waive this right and elect to sign this Consent Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all
other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those substantive
and procedural protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the
Board to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order.

I voluntarily enter into and agree to comply with the terms and conditions set forth
in this Consent Order as a resolution of the pending disciplinary matters. I waive any right

to contest the Findings of Fact and the Conclusions of Law set out in this Consent Order. I
waive all right to appeal this Consent Order.
I sign this Consent Order without reservation, and I fully understand and

comprehend the language and meaning of its terms.

. Signature On File
[3 [24

 

Date J onathan E. Reitzenstein, M.D.
The Respondent
NOTARY

sTATEOR ™: chigan

CITY / COUNTY OF Kew

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this 3rd day of Noy 2024,

 

before me, a Notary Public of the foregoing State and City/County, personally appeared
Jonathan E. Reitzenstein, M.D. and made oath in due form of law that signing the foregoing

Consent Order was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSETH my hand and notarial seal.

DANIEL BRIAN MCGOWAN
Natary ple State of Michigan

‘  agenreces of i" we Notary Public

 

My commission expires: Suly 17, 2039
