IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

VICTOR M. TSENG, MD * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

License Number: D0099866 * Case Number: 2224-0159

* * * * * * * * * * * * *

ORDER FOR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE
TO PRACTICE MEDICINE

Disciplinary Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the
“Board”) hereby SUSPENDS the license of VICTOR M. TSENG, M.D. (the
“Respondent”), License Number D0099866, to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.
Panel A takes such action pursuant to its authority under Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §
14-3A-01 §§ 10(b), 24(c) and Interstate Medical Licensure Compact Rule 6.5e.

On March 15, 2024, the Respondent was licensed to practice medicine in Maryland,
under License Number D0099866 through the Interstate Medical Licensure Compact
(“IMLC”). Health Occ. § 14-3A-01 § 5. Georgia was the Respondent’s State of Principle
Licensure under the ILMC. The Respondent’s license is current through September 30,
2025.

On or about April 22, 2024, the Board received information that the Respondent’s
Georgia medical license was summarily suspended. On April 8, 2024, the Georgia
Composite Medical Board (the “Georgia Board”) issued an Order titled Order of Summary

Suspension in the matter of Victor Tseng, MD, Georgia Physician License No. 81169,
pending further proceedings. That Order summarily suspended the Respondent’s license
beginning on April 8, 2024. : ,

Under the Compact, Health Occ. § 14-3A-01 § 10(b), “if a license granted to a
physician by the member board in the state of principal license . . . is suspended, then all
licenses issued to the physician by member boards automatically be placed, without further
action necessary by any member board, on the same status...”

According to Rule 6.5e, “Upon receipt of notice from the Interstate Commission of
an action taken by the state of principal license, the other member boards shall immediately
place the Compact physician on the same status as the state of principal license.”

The Compact law states in Rule 6.5f, that “If the state of principal license reinstates
the disciplined Compact physician’s license, it shall notify the Interstate Commission that
the suspension has been terminated as soon as reasonably possible, but no later than 5
business days after the suspension has ended. The Interstate Commission shall immediately
notify the other member boards. Those member boards shall reinstate the license in
accordance with the Medical Practice Act of that state.”

Based upon the foregoing, Panel A concludes that the Board is required to
automatically suspend the Respondent’s license until the Georgia Board suspension is

lifted.
ORDER

It is, by a majority of the quorum of Panel A, hereby:

ORDERED that pursuant to the authority vested in Panel A by Md. Code Ann.,
Health Occ. § 14-3A-01 §§ 10(b), 24(c) and IMLC Rule 6.5e, the Respondent’s license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland is hereby SUSPENDED; and it is further
ORDERED that Panel A will revisit the automatic suspension upon the
reinstatement of the Respondent’s license by the Georgia Board; and it is further
ORDERED that a copy of this Order for Suspension of License to Practice
Medicine is filed with the Board in accordance with Health Occ. § 14-407; and it is further
ORDERED that the effective date of the Suspension is the date the Order of
Suspension is signed by the Executive Director of the Board. The Executive Director signs
the Consent Order on behalf of Disciplinary Panel A; and it is further
ORDERED that this is an Order of Disciplinary Panel A, and as such, is a PUBLIC
DOCUMENT. See Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-411.1(b)(2) and Gen.

Provisions § 4-333(b)(6).

pt feofoor" Signature On File

Date Christine A. Fatrelly (J
Executive Director

Maryland State Board of Physicians
