IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

JULIA E. OLSON, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D90487 * Case Number: 7724-0029
x * x * x * * & * * x * %

ORDER TERMINATING SUSPENSION AND IMPOSING PROBATION

PROCEDURAL AND FACTUAL HISTORY

On June 15, 2023, Disciplinary Panel B (the “Panel”) of the Maryland State Board of
Physicians (the “Board”) summarily suspended the Maryland medical license of Julie E. Olson, M.D.
(the “Respondent’),

On October 18, 2023, the Respondent and the Panel entered into a Consent Order whereby
the Panel concluded, as a matter of law, that Dr. Olson was guilty of unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine; in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii); was addicted to, or habitually
abused, any narcotic or controlled dangerous substance as defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law
Article, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(8); provided professional services while using any
narcotic or controlled dangerous substance, as defined in § 5-101 of the Criminal Law Article, or
other drug that is in excess of therapeutic amounts or without medical justification, in violation of
Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(9)(ii); made a willful misrepresentation in treatment, in violation of Health
Occ. § 14-404(a)(17); and sold, prescribed, gave away, or administered drugs for illegal or illegitimate
medical purposes, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(27).!

Under the terms of the Consent Order, the Panel reprimanded the Respondent, terminated the

Order of Summary Suspension dated June 15, 2023 as moot, and suspended her for a minimum period

ta copy of the October 18, 2023 Consent Order is incorporated by reference and available upon request.

of fifteen (15) months. As part of the terms and conditions of her suspension, the Respondent was
required to enroll in the Maryland Professional Rehabilitation Program (“MPRP”), The Consent
Order provided that, after fifteen (15) months and if MPRP determines that the Respondent is safe to
return to the practice of medicine, the Respondent could petition the Panel to terminate the suspension
and that, if the suspension is terminated, the Panel could impose a period of probation with conditions
on her practice.
PETITION FOR TERMINATION OF SUSPENSION

On February 10, 2025, the Respondent petitioned the Board for the termination of her
suspension. The Board also received, as part of her petition, a February 10, 2025 MPRP report, that
stated, “[d]uring her participation, [the Respondent] has been fully cooperative with her MPRP
rehabilitation plan and all recommendations.” Ultimately, MPRP concluded, “[oJur full clinical teams
has discussed this case extensively and in consultation with her treating providers, we endorse her
return to clinical practice. Furthermore, we recommend that [the Respondent] continue all other
elements of her current rehabilitation plan...” On March 17, 2025, the Administrative Prosecutor
filed a response, recommending terminating the suspension and imposing probation with the
condition that she continue her participation in MPRP. On April 30, 2025, the Panel convened during
a termination of suspension hearing, with the Respondent and an Administrative Prosecutor for the
State, for the Panel to consider the Respondent’s petition to terminate the suspension of her license.

CONSIDERATION OF PETITION

The Panel finds that the Respondent has complied with the terms of the Consent Order and,

based on the recommendations and evaluations presented, is safe to return to the practice of medicine.

The Panel believes that the Respondent should remain on probation and enrolled in MPRP for at least

three years from the date of this Order Terminating Suspension and Imposing Probation and until she
is successfully discharged from MPRP.
ORDER
It is thus, by the Panel, hereby
ORDERED that the suspension imposed by the October 18, 2023 Consent Order is
TERMINATED, and it is further
ORDERED that the reprimand imposed by the October 18, 2023 Consent Order remains in
effect; and it is further
ORDERED that the Respondent is placed on PROBATION for a minimum period of
THREE (3) YEARS.’ During the probationary period, the Respondent shall comply with the
following terms and conditions:
|. The Respondent shall remain enrolled in MPRP and shall:
(a) continue to fully and timely cooperate and comply with all MPRP’s referrals, rules,
requirements, including, but not limited to, the terms and conditions of the Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered with
MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy, treatments, evaluations,
and screenings as directed by MPRP;
(b) sign and update the written release/consent forms requested by the Board and MPRP,
including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to make verbal and written

disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board to disclose relevant information to
MPRP. The Respondent shall not withdraw her release/consent;

Fond
GS)
~

sign any written release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.e.,
disclose to and receive from) outside entities verbal and written information
concerning the Respondent and to endure that MPRP is authorized to receive the health
care records of the Respondent. The Respondent shall not withdraw her
release/consent;

(d) if upon the authorization of MPRP, the Respondent transfers to a rehabilitation
program in another state, the Respondent’s failure to comply with any term or

2 If the Respondents license expires during the period of probation, the probationary period and any conditions will be
tolled.
condition of that state’s rehabilitation program, constitutes a violation of this Order
Terminating Suspension and Imposing Probation. The Respondent shall also sign any
out-of-state written release/consent forms to authorize the Board to exchange with
(i.e., disclose to and receive from) the out-of-state program verbal and written
information concerning the Respondent, and to ensure that the Board is authorized to
receive the medical records of the Respondent, including, but not limited to, mental
health and drug and alcohol evaluation and treatment records. The Respondent shall
not withdraw her release/consent;

(e) failure to comply with any of the above terms or conditions including the terms or
conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation
Plan(s) constitutes a violation of this Order Terminating Suspension and Imposing
Probation; and it is further
ORDERED that the Respondent shall not apply for early termination of probation; and it is
further
ORDERED that, after the Respondent has complied with all terms and conditions of
probation and the minimum period of probation imposed by the Order Terminating Suspension and
Imposing Probation has passed, the Respondent may submit to the disciplinary panel a written petition
for termination of probation. The Respondent may be required to appear before the disciplinary panel
to discuss her petition for termination. The disciplinary panel may grant the petition to terminate the
probation through an order of the disciplinary panel, if the Respondent has complied with all
probationary terms and conditions and there are no pending complaints related to the charges: and it
is further
ORDERED that a violation of probation constitutes a violation of this Order Termination
Suspension and Imposing Probation; and it is further
ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or condition
imposed by this Order Terminating Suspension and Imposing Probation, the Respondent shall be

given notice and an opportunity for a hearing. If a disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine

dispute as to a material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of
Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel; and if a
disciplinary panel determines there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact, the Respondent shall
be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel determines that the
Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed by this Order Terminating
Suspension and Imposing Probation, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspended with appropriate terms
and conditions, or revoke the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland. The disciplinary
panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above, impose a civil monetary fine
on the Respondent, and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling the terms
and conditions of this Order Terminating Suspension and Imposing Probation; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of this Order Terminating Suspension and Imposing
Probation is the date the Order Terminating Suspension and Imposing Probation is signed by the
Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive Director signs the Order Terminating
Suspension and Imposing Probation on behalf of the disciplinary panel which has imposed the
terms and conditions of this Order Terminating Suspension and Imposing Probation; and it is further

ORDERED that this is a public document.

05 Jo2 /2025 Signature on File

Christine A. Farrelly !
Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians
