IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

YAW OTCHERE-BOATENG, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE

Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: D90092 * Case Number: 2223-0120
* * * * * * * * * * * * *
ORDER OF DEFAULT

On October 20, 2023, Disciplinary Panel B of the Maryland State Board of
Physicians (“Board”) charged Yaw Otchere-Boateng, M.D. (“Dr. Otchere-Boateng” or
“the Respondent”) with having been disciplined by a licensing or disciplinary authority for
an act that would be grounds for disciplinary action under the Maryland Medical Practice
Act, see Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(21), and for failing to cooperate with a
lawful investigation conducted by the Board or disciplinary panel, see Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(33). With respect to Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(21), Dr. Otchere-Boateng was
disciplined in West Virginia and Virginia for conduct that would be considered
unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, see Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)Gi). On
December 21, 2023, the case was referred to the Office of Administrative Hearings
(“OAH”) for an evidentiary hearing.

On January 4, 2024, OAH sent a Notice of Remote Scheduling Conference to the
parties that informed Dr. Otchere-Boateng that a Scheduling Conference would be held on
February 26, 2024, at 10:00 a.m., by video-conference. The scheduling conference notice
was sent to Dr. Otchere-Boateng at his address of record by regular and certified mail. The

certified mail copy was not returned with a signature as delivered. The copy sent via
NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW
Pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-408, Dr. Otchere-Boateng has the
right to seek judicial review of this Order of Default. Any petition for judicial review shall
be filed within thirty 30) days from the date of mailing of this Order of Default. The date
of the cover letter accompanying this Order is the date the decision was mailed. Any
petition for judicial review shall be made as provided for in the Administrative Procedure
Act, Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-222 and Title 7, Chapter 200 of the Maryland Rules
of Procedure.
If Dr. Otchere-Boateng files a petition for judicial review, the Board is a party and
should be served with the court’s process at the following address:
Maryland State Board of Physicians
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
4201 Patterson Avenue
Baltimore, Maryland 21215
Notice of any petition should also be sent to the Board’s counsel at the following
address:
David Finkler
Assistant Attorney General
Maryland Department of Health

300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21201

1
regular mail was not returned as undeliverable. Dr. Otchere-Boateng did not notify OAH
or the Board of any change of mailing address. Dr. Otchere-Boateng did not make any
requests to OAH to postpone the February 26, 2024 remote Scheduling Conference. The
administrative prosecutor personally attempted to contact Dr. Otchere-Boateng by
telephone, email, and first-class mail, informing him of the proceedings. Dr. Otchere-
Boateng failed to respond to any of the outreach.

On February 26, 2024, the Administrative Law Judge (“ALJ”) commenced the
Scheduling Conference by video-conference, after an approximately 15 minute “grace
period” after the scheduled start time. The administrative prosecutor appeared on behalf
of the State. Dr. Otchere-Boateng did not appear, nor did anyone appear, on his behalf.
During the Scheduling Conference, a remote Prehearing Conference was scheduled for
March 14, 2024, at 10:00 a.m., via video-conference.

On February 26, 2024, the ALJ issued a Scheduling Order informing the parties that
a Remote Prehearing Conference would be held on March 14, 2024, at 10:00 a.m., via
video-conference. The Scheduling Order was sent by regular mail to the parties at their
addresses of record. On February 28, 2024, OAH sent a Notice of Remote Prehearing
Conference to the parties that notified the parties that a Prehearing Conference would be
held on March 14, 2024, at 10:00 a.m., by video-conference. The Notice of Prehearing
Conference informed Dr. Otchere-Boateng that the failure to appear at the Prehearing
Conference could result in a decision against him. The Notice was mailed by regular first-

class mail to Dr. Otchere-Boateng’s address of record. The mailed copy was not returned
as undeliverable. Dr Otchere-Boateng did not request a postponement of the Prehearing
Conference and did not submit a prehearing statement in advance of the Prehearing
Conference, as instructed.

On March 14, 2024, the ALJ held the Prehearing Conference by video-conference.
The administrative prosecutors appeared on behalf of the State. Dr. Otchere-Boateng did
not appear. After waiting fifteen minutes after the scheduled start time for Dr. Otchere-
Boateng to appear, the ALJ commenced the Prehearing Conference. The ALJ noted that
Dr. Otchere-Boateng did not appear at the Scheduling Conference and that the notice of
the Prehearing Conference was sent to Dr. Otchere-Boateng by regular mail. The ALJ
noted that the Notice was not returned by the U.S. Postal Service as undeliverable. The
ALJ concluded that Dr. Otchere-Boateng received proper notice of the Prehearing
Conference because the notice of the prehearing conference was sent to the mailing address
of record. The State made a motion for a default against Dr. Otchere-Boateng.

Under OAH’s rules of procedure, “[i]f, after receiving proper notice as provided in
Regulation .0SC of this chapter, a party fails to attend or participate, either personally or
through a representative, in a Prehearing Conference, hearing, or other stage of a
proceeding, the ALJ may proceed in that party’s absence or may, in accordance with the
hearing authority delegated by the agency, issue a final or proposed default order against
the defaulting party.” COMAR 28.02.01.23A.

On March 18, 2024, the ALJ issued a Proposed Default Order. The ALJ found that

Dr. Otchere-Boateng had proper notice of the March 18, 2024 remote Prehearing
Conference and that he failed to appear or participate. The ALJ proposed that the Panel
find Dr. Otchere-Boateng in default, adopt as findings of fact the statements set forth in the
allegations of fact section of the charges, and conclude as a matter of law that Dr. Otchere-
Boateng violated the Medical Practice Act. The ALJ did not propose a sanction.

The ALJ mailed, by regular first-class mail, copies of the Proposed Default Order
to Dr. Otchere-Boateng, the administrative prosecutor, and the Board at each respective
address of record. The Proposed Default Order notified the parties that they may file
written exceptions to the proposed order but must do so within 15 days of the date of the
Proposed Default Order. The Proposed Default Order stated that any exceptions and
requests for a hearing must be sent to the Board with a copy provided to the opposing party.
On March 25, 2024, the Board also mailed and emailed notice of the exceptions process to
Dr. Otchere-Boateng at his addresses of record.

On April 5, 2024, the State filed written exceptions noting that a sanction was not
proposed by the ALJ and requested that the Panel revoke Dr. Otchere-Boateng’s license.
On May 8, 2024, Board Disciplinary Panel A held an exceptions hearing. The exceptions
hearing was scheduled for 10:30 a.m., and Panel A waited until 10:48 am. Dr. Otchere-
Boateng did not appear. The Administrative Prosecutor appeared, submitted on her written
exceptions, and did not make further oral arguments.

FINDINGS OF FACT
Because Panel A concludes that Dr. Otchere-Boateng has defaulted and has not filed

exceptions to the ALJ’s Proposed Default Order, the following findings of fact are adopted
from the allegations of fact in the charging document and are deemed proven by the
preponderance of the evidence:
L Licensing & Practice Information

1. The Respondent was licensed to practice medicine in Maryland. The
Respondent was originally licensed to practice medicine in Maryland on July 30, 2020.
The Respondent’s license was set to expire on September 30, 2023.!

2. The Respondent has active licenses to practice medicine in Georgia, North
Carolina, Tennessee and Virginia.

3. The Respondent has expired licenses to practice medicine in Alabama,
Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, South Carolina and West Virginia.

4. The Respondent is board-certified in internal medicine. He does not currently
have any hospital privileges in Maryland.
II. Consent Order before the West Virginia Board of Medicine

5. The Respondent became licensed to practice medicine in West Virginia on
or about July 13, 2020.

6. On or about May 3, 2022, the Respondent entered into a Consent Order under

Complaint No. 21-64-W before the West Virginia Board of Medicine (the “West Virginia

' Dr. Otchere-Boateng’s license was set to expire on September 30, 2023. Dr. Otchere-Boateng’s license
did not expire because of his non-renewal, however. A license may not “lapse by operation of law while
the individual is under investigation or while charges are pending.” Health Occ. § 14-403(a); see also
Salerian v. Board of Physicians, 176 Md. App. 231, 247 (2007). Because the charges against Dr. Otchere-
Boateng were still “pending” as that term is used in the statute in September 2023, his license did not lapse
or expire and remained active for disciplinary purposes throughout the Board’s charging and administrative
proceedings.

5
Board”) for violations of the West Virginia Medical Practice Act due to his unprofessional
conduct while working as a physician at a hospital in West Virginia (the “Hospital’”).*

7. The Respondent’s unprofessional conduct at the Hospital included the
following: On or about March 31, 2021, he asked a nurse (“Employee 1”) “to check his
blood sugar, during which [he] informed her that he was hungry, and then asked her ‘Can
Teat you up?’”

8. Employee 1 reported the Respondent’s conduct to the Hospital’s
administration and the Respondent was “immediately suspended . . . on April 1, 2021.”

9. The Hospital terminated the Respondent’s privileges on or about May 10,
2021.

10. The West Virginia Board ordered the Respondent to enroll in and
successfully complete a course in professional boundaries and ethics.
if. Order before the Virginia Board of Medicine

11. The Respondent became licensed to practice medicine in Virginia on
December 12, 2007.

12. On or about March 23, 2023, the Virginia Board of Medicine (the “Virginia
Board”) issued an Order under Case Number 221733 in which it found that the Respondent
violated Virginia law when he engaged in unprofessional conduct toward Employee 1, for
which he was suspended by the Hospital and received discipline in West Virginia as
outlined in the Consent Order before the West Virginia Board.

? To ensure confidentiality and privacy, the names of individuals, patients, employees and/or

institutions involved in this case are not disclosed in this Default Order.
6
13. Further, the Virginia Board found that the Respondent violated Virginia law
when he “engaged in a pattern of disruptive, unprofessional and/or inappropriate behavior
and interactions that interfered with or could reasonably be expected to adversely impact
patient care” while practicing at the Hospital from February through April 2021.

14. The Virginia Board found that on or about February 18, 2021, the
Respondent entered a patient’s room, closed the door and began rubbing the back of an
occupational therapist (“Employee 2”) while asking her what she did on Valentine’s Day.
Employee 2 “felt ‘trapped’” by the Respondent and texted another employee to come and
be with her. On or about February 19, 2021, the Respondent entered the same patient’s
room where Employee 2 was working. He said, “hey girlfriend,” to Employee 2, asked
what she was doing on the upcoming weekend and suggested that she “come to Kingsport?
for a date.”

15. The Virginia Board found that while the Respondent was removing his
personal items from his office at the Hospital on or about April 1, 2021, after being
informed of his suspension, he entered Employee 1’s office, “made comments about not
being able to ‘eat her,’ and laughed.” The Regional Director of Operations for Human
Resources witnessed this interaction.

16. The Virginia Board found that on April 5, 2021, a certified occupational
therapy assistant (“Employee 3”) reported that prior to his suspension, the Respondent
entered the dysphagia therapy room, sat at a table and called Employee 3 to come to his
3 The Virginia Board noted that the Respondent’s address of record is in Kingsport, Tennessee.

Similarly, the Respondent’s address of record with this Board is in Kingsport, Tennessee.
7
table. The Respondent “placed [Employee 3’s] hand on the back of his neck, told her to
feel the knots, and requested that she give him a neck massage.” Employee 3 removed her
hand and told the Respondent that she was not a massage therapist. Another employee
witnessed this interaction.

17. The Virginia Board ordered that the Respondent be reprimanded.

18. In its Order, the Virginia Board stated that the Respondent received adequate
notice of the proceedings against him, including notice of the March 23, 2023 informal
conference; however, the Respondent did not appear.

IV. Board Investigation

19. By letter dated May 22, 2023, the Board informed the Respondent that it
received information that the Virginia Board reprimanded him, and that the acts for which
he was disciplined by the Virginia Board are grounds for disciplinary action in Maryland.
The Board informed the Respondent that it decided to impose a reciprocal sanction against
his license based on the Virginia Board’s action and enclosed a Consent Order of the
Maryland Board imposing a reciprocal sanction against him.* The Board further informed
the Respondent that he had 10 business days from the date of the letter to sign and return
the Consent Orders, or to notify the Board that he elects not to sign the Consent Orders.
The Board stated, “Under Maryland law, a health care provider is required to cooperate

with an investigation of the Board. This letter constitutes notice that the Board is

 

“ The Consent Order of the Maryland Board imposed the reciprocal sanction of a reprimand.
8
conducting an investigation and requiring your cooperation by accepting or rejecting the
enclosed Consent Order within the time provided.”

20. The Respondent did not respond to the Board within the time provided.

21. By email dated June 21, 2023, Board staff sent the letter dated May 22, 2023
to the Respondent again and requested that he submit his response to the Board by June 28,
2023. Board staff received an automatic response from the email server that delivery of the
email failed because “[t]he recipient’s mailbox is full and can’t accept messages now.”

22. On June 21, 2023, Board staff called the Respondent to ask for an email
address in order to send him the Board’s follow-up inquiry regarding its May 22, 2023
letter. The Respondent refused to provide Board staff with an email address or any other
way of receiving correspondence.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Panel A finds Dr. Otchere-Boateng in default based upon his failure to appear or
participate at the Remote Prehearing Conference on March 14, 2024 at OAH. See State
Gov’t § 10-210(4). Based upon the foregoing findings of fact, Panel A concludes that Dr.
Otchere-Boateng is guilty of having been disciplined by a licensing or disciplinary
authority for an act that would be grounds for disciplinary action under the Maryland
Medical Practice Act, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(21); and for failing to
cooperate with a lawful investigation conducted by the Board or disciplinary panel, in
violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(33). With respect to Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(21),

Dr. Otchere-Boateng was disciplined in West Virginia and Virginia for conduct that would
be considered unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health
Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii).
SANCTION

The ALJ did not recommend a sanction. The State recommended a revocation based
on the facts in the charging documents that Dr. Otchere-Boateng engaged in harassing
behavior that constituted unprofessional conduct and based on his complete failure to
cooperate with the Board’s investigation. Based on the findings of fact and the State’s
written exceptions argument, Panel A concludes that the revocation of Dr. Otchere-
Boateng’s license to practice medicine in Maryland is warranted.

ORDER

It is, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Panel A, hereby

ORDERED that the license of Yaw Otchere-Boateng, M.D. to practice medicine in
Maryland is REVOKED; and it is further

ORDERED that this Order of Default goes into effect upon the signature of the
Board’s Executive Director or her designee. The Board’s Executive Director or her
designee signs this Order of Default on behalf of Panel A; and it is further

ORDERED that this is a public document. See Health Occ. §§ 1-607, 14-

411.1(b)(2), and Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. § 4-333(b)(6).

Signature On File
Ob | 12 /Z024 ~ nse
Date Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Djfector

Maryland State Board of/Physicia

 
