IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE MARYLAND
MILIND S. GADGIL, M.D. * STATE BOARD OF
Respondent * PHYSICIANS
Maryland License Number: D0097307  * Case Number: 2224-0147
kook & & & ok & kk ek & k & ek ko kk ok & &
ORDER
PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND

The Maryland Board of Physicians (the “Maryland Board”) received information
that Milind S. Gadgil, M.D. (the “Respondent’”), Maryland License Number D0097307, a
physician licensed to practice medicine in Maryland via the Interstate Medical Licensure
Compact (the “Compact”), was disciplined by the Nebraska Board of Medicine and
Surgery (the “Nebraska Board”). In an Order on Agreed Settlement, dated March 20,
2024, the Nebraska Board suspended the Respondent’s license for a period of six (6)
months, with reinstatement at the discretion of the Nebraska Board.

Based on the above mentioned Nebraska Board sanction, the Maryland Board is
authorized to discipline the Respondent, pursuant to the following:

Health Occ. §14-3A-01 Section 10 Disciplinary Actions provides:

(a) Any disciplinary action taken by any member board against a physician

licensed through the Compact shall be deemed unprofessional conduct that

may be subject to discipline by other member boards, in addition to any
violation of the Medical Practice Act or regulations in that state.

(c) If disciplinary action is taken against a physician by a member board not in
the state of principal license, any other member board may deem the action
conclusive as to matter of law and fact decided; and

(1) Impose the same or lesser sanction(s) against the physician so long as such
sanctions are consistent with the Medical Practice Act of that state[.]

 
03/42/2824 31392 3193789197 - UPS STORE PAGE @3/23 -

AGREED TO;

 

Gadg
Defendant

State of NC ls , a ,
County of wake County }

This Agreed Settlement Is acknowledged before me Milind S. Gadg!!, M.0,, on this

 

  
 

12 day of, March, 2024

JAIRO ARIAS-FAREJA
NOTARY PUBLIO
Wake County, North Caroling
omens tion Bxovys' Oot 27, 2028

 

ary Public
My Commission Expires; y/ t? / aett

STATE OF NEBRASKA, ex tel,
MICHAEL T. HILGERS, Attorney
General,
Plalnttf,

BY: MICHAEL T, HILGERS, #24483
Attomey General

Assistant Atorney General
2115 State Capite!
Linaoin, NE 68509-8020
(402) 471-1816

Attorneys for the tt

U)
40308 Regensy Parkway Drive j
Omaha, NE 68114
(402) 387-7300
mnovotny@ldmlaw,co:
Attorney for Defendant.

Page 3 of 3
JAN 1 ane,

STATE OF NEBRASKA ,

DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
DIVISION OF PUBLIC HEALTH

 

STATE OF NEBRASKA ex rel, MICHAEL
T. HILGERS, Attorney General,

 

)
)
)
Plaintiff, )

) PETITION FOR DISCIPLINARY
vs. ) ACTION
)

MILIND S. GADGIL, M.D., )
)
Defendant. j
ALLEGATIONS COMMON TO ALL CAUSES OF ACTION

The Plaintiff alleges as follows:

1. Jurisdiction Is based on Neb. Rev. Stat. §§ 38-176 (Relssue 2016) and 38-
186 (2020 Cum. Supp.).

2, At all times relevant herein, the Defendant, Milind S. Gadgil, M.D., has been
the holder of a physician license (#35227), issued by the Department of Health and
Human Services Division of Public Health (“Department”).

3. The Department Is the agency of the State of Nebraska authorized to
enforce the provisions of the Uniform Credentialing Act regulating the practice of medicine
and surgery.

4. The Nebraska Board of Medicine and Surgery considered the Investigation
of this matter and made a disciplinary recommendation to the Atlomey General, which

recommendation has been considered. Such matters are privileged pursuant to Neb.

Rev. Stat. §§ 38-1,105 and 38-1,106 (Reissue 2016).
5. At all times relevant herein, the Defendant was employed at R.W.M.C.,
Scottsbluff, Nebraska. The Defendant began his employment on or about Match 6, 2023.
6. In April 2023, Defendant began displaying conceming behavior at
RWMC., Including regularly arriving late for work, laughIng at Inappropriate times, and
other abnormal behavior. Coworkers reported the Defendant smelled like alcohol at times.
7. On May 1, 2023, R.W.M.C, scheduled the Defendant for a for-causa drug
. screen, Upon his arrival at work, the Defendant's coworkers reported he smelled of
alcohol. The Defendant was taken for breathalyzer testing. The Defendant's first alcohol
breathalyzer test at 07:32 a.m. ylelded a positive blood alcohol content of .222, The
Defendant's second alcohol breathalyzer test at 07:48 a.m. ylelded a blood alcoho!
content of .259. .
8 The Defendant was terminated from his employment at R.W.M.C, due to
the positive alcohol screen, ,
9. . The Defendant advised a Department Investigator of the following:
a, The Defendant began a new job but was terminated from it after a short .
b. He sought treatment from a provider who placed him on a Vallum Taper to
address excessive alcohol use; and
c. The Defendant agreed to provide the Department documentation of his
substance use evaluation and/or treatment.
FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION
10. Paragraphs 4 through 9 are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

11, Neb. Rev. Stat. § 38-1 78(7) (2022 Cum. Supp.) provides that a professional

license may be disciplined for the practice of the profession while the ability to practice is

 
impaired by alcohol, controlled substances, drugs, mind-altering substances, physical
disability, mental disability, or emotional disability.

42. The Defendant's practice of the profession while impaired ts grounds for
discipline. . .
SECOND GAUSE OF ACTION

1 3. Paragraphs 1 through 9 are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

414, ‘Neb. Rev. Stat. § 38-178(3) (2022 Cum, Supp.) provides that a professional
license may be disciplined for abuse of, dependence on, or active addiction to alcohol,
any controlled substance, or any mind-altering substance,

15, The Defendant's active addiction to alcoho! constitutes unprofessional
conduct and fs grounds for disclpline.

PRAYER FOR RELIEF
WHEREFORE, the Plaintiff prays that the Chlef Medical Officer set thls matter for

hearing, order appropriate disciplinary action pursuant to Neb. Rev. Stat. 38-196 (Reissue

2016), and tax the costs of this action to the Defendant,

 
STATE OF NEBRASKA, ex rel.
MICHAEL - T. HILGERS, Attomey
General, Plaintiff,

BY: MICHAEL T. HILGERS, #24483
Attomey General

   

BY:

  
    

     

easier,
Assistant Attorney
2115 State Capita!
Lincoln, NE 68509-8920
(402) 471-1815

Attorneys for the Plalntl

General

 
Maryland Board Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B”) has determined that the acts for
which the Respondent was disciplined in Nebraska would be grounds for disciplinary
action under H.O. § 14-404(a)(7) and (9)(i). Pursuant to Health Occ. § 14-3A-01 Section
10(a), the grounds for disciplinary action under H.O. § 14-404(a) are as follows:

(3) Gi) Is guilty of:

Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine.
(7) Habitually is intoxicated;
(9) Provides professional service:
(i) While under the influence of alcohol [.]
FINDINGS OF FACT
Panel B makes the following findings of fact and deems it conclusive as a matter of fact
decided pursuant to Health Occ. § 14-3A-01 Section 10(c):

1, The Respondent was licensed to practice in Maryland on or about April
25, 2023, under License Number D0097307 pursuant to the Compact.

2. In its Order on Agreed Settlement, the Nebraska Board found that, in April
2023, the Respondent began displaying concerning behavior while employed at a
Nebraska clinic, including regularly arriving late for work, laughing at inappropriate
times, and other abnormal behavior. Coworkers reported the Respondent smelled like
alcohol at times.

3. On May 1, 2023, upon arrival at work, the Respondent’s co-workers
reported that he smelled of alcohol, so the Respondent was scheduled for a for-cause drug
screen. Two alcohol breathalyzer tests yielded positive blood alcohol contents of .222

and .259.

 
4, By Order dated March 20, 2024, the Nebraska Board suspended the
Respondent’s license for six months, with reinstatement at the discretion of the Nebraska
Board.

A copy of the Nebraska Order is attached hereto.
-CONCLUSIONS OF LAW.

Based on the foregoing Findings of Fact, based the Nebraska Order, and Health
Occ. §14-3A-01 Section 10(a) and (c), Panel B concludes as a matter of law that the
Respondent is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of
Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii); is habitually intoxicated, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(7); and provided professional services while under the influence of alcohol, in
violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(9)(i).

ORDER

It is, thus, by Panel B, pursuant to Health Occ. § 14-3A-01 Section 10(c)(1),
hereby: .

ORDERED that the Respondent’s license to practice medicine in Maryland is
SUSPENDED unti! such time as his license is reinstated by the Nebraska Board; and it is
further

ORDERED that during the suspension period, the Respondent, in Maryland,
shall not:

i. Practice medicine;

ii. Take any actions after the effective date of this Order to hold himself or
herself out to the public as a current provider of medical services;

iii. Authorize, allow or condone the use of the Respondent’s name or
provider number by any health care practice or any other licensee or health
care provider;
iv. Function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other
medical care facility in the State;

v. Prescribe or dispense medications; or

vi. Perform any other act that requires an active medical license; and it is
further

ORDERED that a violation of the suspension constitutes a violation of this
Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent shall not apply for early termination of the
suspension; and it is further

ORDERED that the suspension will be terminated through an order of the
Maryland disciplinary panel, and the disciplinary panel may impose any terms and
conditions as imposed by the Nebraska Board on the Respondent’s return to practice,
including, but not limited to, probation; and it is further

ORDERED that the effective date of this Order is the date this Order is signed by
the Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive Director or her
designee signs this Order on behalf of the disciplinary panel which has imposed the terms
and conditions of this Order; and it is further

ORDERED that the Respondent is responsible for all costs incurred in fulfilling
the terms and conditions of this Order; and it is further

ORDERED that, if the Respondent allegedly fails to comply with any term or
condition imposed by this Order, the Respondent shall be given notice and an opportunity
for a hearing. If the disciplinary panel determines there is a genuine dispute as to a
material fact, the hearing shall be before an Administrative Law Judge of the Office of

Administrative Hearings followed by an exceptions process before a disciplinary panel;

 
and if the disciplinary panel determines there is no genuine dispute as to a material fact,
the Respondent shall be given a show cause hearing before a disciplinary panel; and it is
further

ORDERED that, after the appropriate hearing, if the disciplinary panel
determines that the Respondent has failed to comply with any term or condition imposed
by this Order, the disciplinary panel may reprimand the Respondent, place the
Respondent on probation with appropriate terms and conditions, or suspend Respondent’s
license with appropriate terms and conditions, or revoke the Respondent’s license. The
disciplinary panel may, in addition to one or more of the sanctions set forth above,
impose a civil monetary fine on the Respondent; and it is further

ORDERED that this Order is a public document. See Health Occ. §§1-607, 14-

411.1(b)(2) and Gen. Prov. §4-333(b)(6). S . .
04 [03/2024 ignature On File
Date Christine A. Farrelly ( ) (]
Executive Director
ySieians

Maryland Board of Ph

 
NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW

 

Pursuant to Health Occ. §14-408, the Respondent has the right to seek judicial
review of this Order. Any petition for judicial review shall be filed within thirty (30) days
from the date of mailing of this Order. The cover letter accompanying this Order
indicates the date the decision is mailed. Any petition for judicial review shall be made as
provided for in the Administrative Procedure Act, Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §10-222
and Title 7, Chapter 200 of the Maryland Rules of Procedure.

If the Respondent files a petition for judicial review, the Board is a party and
should be served with the court’s process as the following address:

Christine A. Farrelly
Executive Director
Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, Maryland 21215
Notice of any petition should also be sent to Board Counsel at the following address:
David Finkler
Assistant Attorney General
Maryland Office of the Attorney General
Maryland Department of Health

300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21201
ATTACHMENT
STATE OF NEBRASKA es ove
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES ,

STATE OF NEBRASKA ex rel, MICHAEL T,

)
HILGERS, Attorney General, ) ‘
: ) 240055 MD
Plaintiff, , ) .
vs. ) ORDER ON
) - AGREED SETTLEMENT
GADGIL, MILIND, )
)
Defendant. )

A proposed Agreed Settlement was filed with the Department on March 19, 2024.

ORDER
1 , The Agreed Setttement is adopted, attached hereto and incorporated by reference.
2, The facts as set out In the Petition are taken as true and adopted herein.
3. The parties shall comply with all of the terms of the Agreed Settlement.

  

Date: ssfopoof eee
Titnothy Tesm

iM
Chief Medical Officer
Division of Public Health
Department of Health and Human Services

- Glvil penalty, If imposed, should be malted to: DHHS, Division of Public Health, Licensure Unit, ATTN: Diane
Paarson, P,O, Box 94986, Lincoln, NE 68509.

CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE
The undersigned certifies that a copy of the foregoing was sent on the date below by
certified United States Mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, and/or electronically to the

following:

MARK NOVOTNY

ATTORNEY AT LAW

40308 REGENCY PARKWAY DR
OMAHA NE 68114

MINDY LESTER

ASSISTANT ATTORNEY GENERAL
AGO.HEALTH@NEBRASKA.GOV

Date: s/¢o /24

 

P.O, Box 98914
Lincoln, NE 68509-8914
9589 o720 5e70 141) 3698 Ob P,-(402) 471-7237 F, (402) 742-2376
. dhhs. hearingoffice@nebraska.gov

 
STATE OF NEBRASKA
DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
DIVISION OF PUBLIG HEALTH

STATE OF NEBRASKA ex rel. MICHAEL }
YT. HILGERS, Attorney General, )
}
Plaintiff, } : :

J AGREED SETTLEMENT
vs, )
)
MILIND S. GADGIL, M.D., )
)
Defendant. )

The Plaintiff and the Defendant, Milind S. Gadgll, M.D., in consideration of the
mutual covenants and agreements contained herein, agree as follows:

4. The Defendant, Milind S. Gadgll, M.D. ts the holder of a physician license
(#35227) issued by the Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services Division of
Public Health ("Department’).

2. The Defendant acknowledges service of a copy of the Petition for
Disciplinary Action and waives the need for further service of the Petition upon him,

3. Before disciplinary measures may be taken against the Defendant's
Nebraska physiclan license, the Defendant Is entitled to a hearing as provided by law.

_ The Defendant waives the right to a hearing. The Dafandant also waives any right to
judiclal review of a disciplinary order which approves the terms of this Agreed Settlement,

4, No coercion, threats, or promises, other than those stated herein, were
mada to the Defendant to induce him to enter into this Agreed Settlement.

8. The Defendant acknowledges that he holds licenses to practice as a

physician In Colorado, Tennessee, Minnesota, and Wisconsin. °

 
6. The Defendant acknowledges that he has read the Petition flied by the
Attorney General’s Office and nelther admits nor denlas the allegations contained in the
Patition.

7. The Plaintiff and the Defendant consent to the entry of a final disciplinary
order by the Nebraska Chlef Medical Officer which finds the allegations In the Petition are
true and suspends the Defendant’s Nebraska physiclan llcange for a period of six (6)
months, effective ten (10) days from the date the Chlef Medical! Officer signs the Order
on Agreed Settlement. The Defendant shall not engage in any activity which constitutes
the practice of medicine and surgery in the State of Nebraska during the period of
suspension.

8. The Defendant acknowledges that reinstatement of his Nebraska physician
license after the six (6) month suspension Is complete ts at the discretion of the
Department and upon the approval of the Nebraska Board of Medicine and Surgery.

9. The Defendant would like to. maintain his Academy of Psychiatry and
Neurology Dual Board Certifications, The Defendant acknowledges the present matter Is
separate and distinct from that certification and that no assurances have been provided
to him regarding the effect of the above captioned matter on the certification.

40. The Nebraska Attorney General's Office has given notice of this Agreed
Settlement to the Board of Medloine and Surgery and has received their input In
accordance with Neb. Rev. Stat, § 38-190 (Reissue 2016).

11. If this Agreed Settlement Is not approved by the Chief Medica! Officer, this
Agreed Settlement shall become null and void and will not be admissible for any purpose

at any hearing that may be held on this matter.

Page 2 of 3

 
