BARIKA BUTLER-QUARLES, M.D.

Date: 05/22/2024

Mark D. Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4'" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Barika Butler-Quarles, M.D. License Number: D90605
Case Number: 2224-0051

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of the Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-403, I have
decided to SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland,
License Number D90605, effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my
license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without
compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of
medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act
(the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seq. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of
the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license
means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of me based on my
disclosure in my 2022 license renewal application that had pending charges. As part of its
investigation, the Board made multiple written requests and issued a subpoena directing
that I produce and deliver to the Board all documents related to my court case, which I
failed to produce and deliver to the Board. As a result, on January 30, 2024, Panel A issued
disciplinary charges against me for being guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice
of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), and for failing to cooperate with
a lawful investigation conducted by the Board or a disciplinary panel, in violation of Health
Occ. § 14-404(a)(33). A copy of Panel A’s charges issued on January 30, 2024, is
attached hereto and incorporated herein. I have decided to surrender my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid prosecution of these allegations and
due to my inability to practice medicine in the foreseeable future as a result of my court
case. I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure these allegations shall
Mark Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Barika Butler-Quarles, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 2

be treated as proven and that these allegations support a conclusion that I violated Health
Oce. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii) (is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine)
and (33) (fails to cooperate with a lawful investigation conducted by the Board or a
disciplinary panel).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the
aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that
by executing this Letter of Surrender I am waiving my right to contest any charges that
would have issued from Panel A’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at
which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to
call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections
provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

l understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Letter of Surrender. I also understand that in
the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that this
Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final
order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov.
§§ 4-101 et seg., and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel
A.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to surrender
my Controlled Dangerous Substance Registration to the Office of Controlled Substances
Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license
will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that
I apply for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel A or its
successor is not required to grant reinstatement; and, if it does grant reinstatement, it may
impose any terms and conditions the disciplinary panel considers appropriate for public
safety and the protection of the integrity and reputation of the profession. 1 further
understand that if I ever file a petition for reinstatement, I will approach Panel A or its
successor in the same position as an individual whose license has been revoked.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety
for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my
right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel
A, including the right to counsel with an attomey prior to signing this Letter of Surrender.
I understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I
acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and
effect of this Letter of Surrender, I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.
Mark Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Barika Butler-Quarles, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

Very truly yours,

Signature On File

Barika Butler-Quarles, M.D.

NOTARY

STATEOF ME
CITY/COUNTY OF Jeshtenre—_

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this CA day of Abe ; 2024 before me, a

Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, personally appearéd Barika Butler-Quarles,
M.D., and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this
Letter of Surrender was voluntary.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

Mt/— MV booed wird

Notary Public

My commission expires: £724/24

ACCEPTANCE

On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A, on this ZB! aay of Aan , 2024, I, Christine A.

Farrelly, accept the PUBLIC SURRENDER of Barika Butler-Qyarles, M.D.’s license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

Signature On File

Christine A. Farrel rutive Direct /
Maryland Board of Physh s

 
