Jeffrey Carlton Roeser, M.D.

July 9, 2025

Date

Mark D. Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4'" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Jeffrey Carlton Roeser, M.D. License Number: D91431
Case Number: 2225-012

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403, I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland, License Number D91431, effective immediately. I understand that upon
surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with
or without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the
practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical
Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seq. and other applicable laws. In other
words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender
of my license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State
of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, it becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A
of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board received my letter self-reporting that I voluntarily
surrendered my medical license in Connecticut following a complaint that I was terminated
from ProHealth Physicians for having a sexual relationship with a patient. Additionally,
after undergoing an evaluation, it was deemed that I am unfit to practice medicine at this
time. The Board began an investigation of these allegations. I have decided to surrender
my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and
prosecution of these allegations. I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical
licensure, these allegations shall be treated as proven and that these allegations support the
conclusion that I violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a) 3(i), 3(ii), and (4).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly, and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the
