Basri Sila, M.D.
ee
|

January 23, 2017

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland Board of Physicians

4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215

RE: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
License Number: D10428
MBP Case Number: 2016-0920

Dear Ms. Farrelly and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in
the State of Maryland, License Number D10428, effective March 13, 2017. I will use the time
between now and the effective date to wrap-up treatment of my current patients as soon as possible
and I will not accept any new patients before the effective date. I understand that upon surrender
of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without -- -
compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine
in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.) §§ 14-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol.) and other applicable
laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the
surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the
State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT and on Disciplinary
Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians’ (the “Board’s”) acceptance,
becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A.

I acknowledge that the Board opened an investigation concerning my overprescribing of
controlled substances. I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these allegations and due to my current
health issues and planned retirement. I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure
that these allegations shall be treated as proven and that these allegations support a conclusion that

I violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a) (22), which requires that a physician practice within the
standard of care.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this
Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the aforementioned
allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations.
Christine A. Farrelly and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Basri Sila, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender 1 am waiving my right to contest
any charges that would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing
at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call
witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural protections provided by law,
including the right to appeal.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and the
National Practitioner Data Bank and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data Bank of this
Letter of Surrender, and in response to any inquiry, that I have surrendered my license as if it were
revoked. I also understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other
state or jurisdiction, that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board or
Panel A to the same extent as a Final Order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to
Md. Code Ann. Gen Prov. § 4-101 ef seg. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender constitutes a
disciplinary action by Panel A.

I affirm that as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I will present to the Board
my original Maryland medical license number D10428, and my most recent wallet-sized renewal
card, I also affirm that I will provide access to and copies of patient medical records in compliance
with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article.

~~ | further recognize and agree that by submitting this Letter of Surrender, my license

will remain surrendered unless and until the Board grants reinstatement. In the event that I apply
for reinstatement of my Maryland License, I understand that Panel A or its successor is not required
to grant reinstatement. I further understand that if I ever file petition for reinstatement, I will
approach Panel A or its successor in the same position as an individual whose license has been
revoked. J also understand that if] apply for reinstatement, I bear the burden of demonstrating my
professional competence and fitness to practice medicine to the satisfaction of Panel A or its
successor.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its entirety for
any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been advised of my right to be
represented by the attorney of my choice throughout proceedings before Panel A, including the
right to counsel with an attorney prior to signing this Letter of Surrender. I understand both the
nature of Panel A’s actions and this Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and
comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I voluntarily
choose to surrender my Maryland license to practice medicine pursuant to the terms and conditions
set out herein. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours

‘ > —_
asri Sila, M.D.

 

 
Christine A. Farrelly and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE:  Basri Sila, M.D.

Letter of Surrender
Page 3

NOTARY

 

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this al 2° “hay of January, 2017 before me, a Notary Public
of the City/County aforesaid, personally appeared Basri Sila, M.D., and declared and affirmed

under the penalties of perjury that the signing of this Letter of Surrender was his voluntary act and
deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal.

 
   

auc otary Public

A LYN ogical
ao a ea = ~ noua PUBLIC STATE GF tremn Aggy Se - - ~ ~
My cormuission expires: HY Commission Expires Coss + ets

ACCEPTANCE

ge te
On behalf of Disciplinary Panel A of the Maryland Board of Physicians, on this zs
day of January, 2017, I, Christine A. Farrelly, accept Basri Sila, M.D.’s SURRENDER of his
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

 
