James E. Moulsdale, M.D.

July 25, 2016

Arun Bhandari, M.D., Chair, Disciplinary Panel A
Maryland State Board of Physicians

4201 Patterson Avenue

Baltimore, Maryland 21215

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
License Number: D13629
Case Number: 2015-0610A

Dear Dr. Bhandari and Members of Disciplinary Panel A:

Please be advised that I have decided to PERMANENTLY SURRENDER my
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D13629, effective
immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical
advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot
prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of
Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code
Ann., Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seq. (2014 Repl. Vol.) and other applicable laws. In other
words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the
surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed
individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT and that
upon the acceptance of Disciplinary Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians,
becomes a FINAL ORDER of the panel.

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my urology practice
and on May 25, 2016, Disciplinary Panel A subsequently issued disciplinary charges
against me. Specifically, the charges alleged that I performed inappropriate pelvic and
rectal examinations on multiple female patients in a manner that compromised their
dignity and made them feel uncomfortable, without adequate clinical rationale,
explanation or consent. I further acknowledge that I performed pelvic and rectal
examinations of female patients who presented with kidney stones or other urologic
symptoms or conditions.
I have decided to permanently surrender my license to practice medicine in the
State of Maryland to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary charges now pending
before the Board, and due to my age and planned retirement. If charges in this case
were to proceed to a hearing, I agree that the State would be able to prove that I
violated Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. II § 14-404(a)(3)(ii)(unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine) and § 14-404(a)(22)(failure to meet appropriate standards for the
delivery of quality medical care). For purposes related to medical licensure, these
charges will be treated as proven.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly, and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid prosecution of the aforementioned charges
under the Act.

I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender, I am waiving my right to
contest the Charges issued by Panel A and its investigative findings in a formal
evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront
witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and to all other
substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards,
the National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data
Bank of this Letter of Surrender, and in response to any inquiry, that I have surrendered
my license in lieu of further disciplinary action under the Act. I also understand that in
the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that
this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board or Panel A to the
same extent as a Final Order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to
Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seq. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender
constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

I affirm that as of the date of this Letter of Surrender, I will present to the Board
my original Maryland medical license, number D13629, and any renewal wallet cards. I
also affirm that I will provide access to and copies of patient medical records in
compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General article.

I further recognize and agree that by tendering this Letter of Surrender that my
license will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree I have no right to
reapply for a license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland. I further agree that
the Board or a disciplinary panel is not obligated to consider any application for
licensure that I might file at a future date.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, | wish to make clear that I have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout

2
NOTARY

STATE OF No and __

-CHFY/ COUNTY OP Balhncore _

I HEREBY CERTIFY that on this aS “day of IUWA , 2016 before me, a
_Notary Public of the City/County aforesaid, ersonally appeared
Moi le__, MD., and declared and affirmed under the penalties of

perjury that the signing of this Letter of Surrender was his voluntary act and deed.

Sa, my hand and Notarial seal.

ss wal
sé es eoeeege %
3 §? oman a
zx ., puss f *e Che -
Zs "Of ;
% “Ls Notary Public
G “ati cA Y
THAW
My commission expires: | CHRISTINA L L. (GANATELLA
HARFORD CuNty
MY COMMISSION EXPIRES 10-13-
ACCEPTANCE ore
On behalf of Disciplinary.Panel A, on this 2gte, of Su 2016, I, Christine A.
Farrelly, accept Tame. ames Movida MDs feaannns PUBLIC

SURRENDER of his license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland.

 
       

Christine A. Farrelly, Exe¢utiye Pe
Maryland Board of Physici
proceedings before Panel A, including the right to counsel with an attorney prior to
signing this Letter of Surrender. I understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and
this Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the
language, meaning and terms and effect of this Letter of Surrender. I voluntarily choose
to surrender my Maryland license to practice medicine pursuant to the terms and
conditions set out herein. I make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Sincerely,

§ Vitel

ames E. Moulsdale, M.D.

 
