 

Vincent J. Vaghi, M.D.

 

Date: NOVEM BEN vi 20/6
72

Damean W. E. Freas, D.O., Chair
Maryland State Board of Physicians
Disciplinary Panel B

4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, Maryland 21215-2299

RE: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
_ License Number: D27925
Case Number: 7717-0022

Dear Dr. Freas and Members of Disciplinary Panel B:

Please be advised that | have decided to PERMANENTLY SURRENDER my
license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D27925,
effective immediately upon the Board’s acceptance of this letter. | understand that upon
surrender of my license, | may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual,
with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in
the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical
Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. Il (“Health Occ.”), §§ 14-101 et
seq., (2014 Repl. Vol. & 2016 Supp.) and other applicable laws. In other words, as of
the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, | understand that the surrender of my
license means that | am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of
Maryland.

| understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT and on the
acceptance of Disciplinary Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (“Panel
B” of the “Board”), becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel B.

On September 2, 2016, Panel B issued a final order (the “Order’), in case
number 2015-0022 (attached and incorporated herein as Exhibit 1). /nter alia, the Order:
concluded that | committed immoral and unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i) and (ii); suspended my license for
a minimum period of one year; and required that | enroll in the Maryland Professional
Rehabilitation Program (MPRP) within fifteen business days. After an investigation, the
Board voted to issue charges that | violated the requirement that | enroll in the MPRP
within fifteen business days.
 

Vincent J. Vaghi, M.D., Letter of Permanent Surrender
Page 2 of 3

| have decided to permanently surrender my license to practice as a physician in
the State of Maryland in lieu of further disciplinary action. | acknowledge that if the case
were to proceed to an evidentiary hearing, the Board would submit evidence to support
the investigatory findings it made in this case. | acknowledge that for all purposes
relevant to medical licensure, those investigative findings will be treated as if proven.

| understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards,
the National Practitioners’ Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection
Databank of this Permanent Letter of Surrender, and in response to any inquiry, that |
have surrendered my license in lieu of further disciplinary action. | also understand that
in the event | would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction, that
this Permanent Letter of Surrender and the underlying investigative documents may be
released or published by the Board to the same extent as a final order that would result
from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen Prov., § 4-101 et seq., (2014),
and that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is considered a disciplinary action by Panel
B.

Upon the Board’s acceptance of this Permanent Letter of Surrender, if | have not
already done so, | shall present to the Board my original Maryland medical license
number D27925 and my most recent wallet-sized renewal card; and any controlled
dangerous substances in my possession, other than those legitimately prescribed by a
licensed physician for me. | affirm that | have destroyed all prescription forms and pads
on which my name and Drug Enforcement Administration Registration Number are
imprinted. | shall also deliver to the Maryland Office of Controlled Substances
Administration, 4201 Patterson Avenue, 1% Floor, Baltimore, Maryland 21215, my
Maryland Controlled Dangerous Substances Certificate; and my Drug Enforcement
Administration Registration Card to Drug Enforcement Administration, 500 K Street, NW,
Suite 500, Washington, D.C. 20001. | affirm that | shall comply with the requirements
regarding access to patient medical records under Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health
General Article. However, | affirm that | am no longer responsible for the maintenance of
any patient records, as | have relinquished ownership of my practice, and custodianship
of all patient records to new owners.

| acknowledge that | may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part
or in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. | recognize that by submitting this
Permanent Letter of Surrender, my license in Maryland will remain permanently
surrendered and that | shall not reapply for a license to practice as a physician in the
State of Maryland.

Finally, | wish to make clear that | have been advised of my right to consult with
counsel before signing this Permanent Letter of Surrender. | fully understand both the
nature of the Panel B’s actions and this Permanent Letter of Surrender. | acknowledge
that | understand and comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this
Permanent Letter of Surrender. | make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.
 

Vincent J. Vaghi, M.D., Letter of Permanent Surrender
Page 3 of 3

Very truly yours,

Uf fon
Vincent J. Vagtt/ M.D.

NOTARY

STATE OF MARYLAN

CITY/COUNTY OF _( @&*+O Cf

 

| HEREBY CERTIFY that on this Q day of Alovewss er, 2AO[b,
before me, a Notary Public of the State and City/County aforesaid, personally appear
Vincent J. Vaghi, M.D., and declared and affirmed under the penalties of perjury that
signing the foregoing Permanent Letter of Surrender was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESS my hand and Notarial seal. a »

 

Notary Public

My Commission expires: u | a al \

ACCEPTANCE

On behalf of leven Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians, on
this 1G day of 20 , |, Christine A. Farrelly, accept
Vincent J. Vaghi, M.D.is PERMANENT SURRENDER of his license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland.

 

 
