IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE
JOSE L. LIZARDI, M.D. * MARYLAND STATE

Applicant * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: UNLICENSED * Case Number: 2223-0092
* x * & * * x * * * x * x

ORDER OF DEFAULT

On May 5, 2023, Disciplinary Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians
(“Board”) issued a Notice of Intent to Deny Application for Initial Medical Licensure under
the Maryland Medical Practice Act to Jose L. Lizardi, M.D. (“Dr. Lizardi” or “the
Respondent”) under Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-205(b)(3)(i), alleging violations of
Health Occ. § 14-404 for immoral and unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine,
see Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i), (ii); willfully making or filing a false report or record in
the practice of medicine, see Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(11); being disciplined by a licensing,
certifying, or disciplinary authority or convicted or disciplined by a court of any state or
country for an act that would be grounds for disciplinary action, see Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(21); and violating any provision of the Health Occupations Article, Title 14, any
rule or regulation adopted by the Board, or any State or federal law pertaining to the
practice of medicine, see Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(43); and for lack of good moral
character, which is a requirement of licensure, see Health Occ. § 14-307(b). With respect
to Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(21), the acts in other jurisdictions that would be grounds for
disciplinary action under Health Occ. § 14-404(a) include immoral and unprofessional

conduct in the practice of medicine, see Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i), (ii); willfully
practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i), (ii); willfully making
or filing a false report or record in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. §
14-404(a)(11); and violated a regulation adopted by the Board and State law pertaining to
the practice of medicine under Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(43). The violations referenced in
Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(43) include Health Occ. § 1-212, which is a violation for sexual
misconduct, and Code of Maryland Regulations (COMAR) 10.32.17.02 and .03, which
finds violations related to sexual, contact, sexual harassment, and sexual misconduct.
Finally, the Board finds that Dr. Lizardi does not possess good moral character, which is a
requirement of licensure. See Health Occ. § 14-307(b).
SANCTION

Based on the entirety of the findings of fact, Panel A concludes that the denial of

Dr. Lizardi’s application for a license to practice medicine in Maryland is warranted.
ORDER

It is, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Panel A, hereby

ORDERED that the application of Jose Lizardi, M.D. for a license to practice
medicine in Maryland is DENIED; and it is further

ORDERED that this Order of Default goes into effect upon the signature of the
Board’s Executive Director or her designee. The Board’s Executive Director or her

designee signs this Order of Default on behalf of Panel A; and it is further

ORDERED that this is a public document.

il
ov fiz [e024 Signature On File

Date Christine A. Farell. Exefutive Diryegtor
Maryland State Boar hysici

 

NOTICE OF RIGHT TO PETITION FOR JUDICIAL REVIEW
Pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-408, Dr. Lizardi has the right to seek
judicial review of this Order of Default. Any petition for judicial review shall be filed
within thirty (30) days from the date of mailing of this Order of Default. The date of the
cover letter accompanying this Order is the date the decision was mailed. Any petition for
judicial review shall be made as provided for in the Administrative Procedure Act, Md.
Code Ann., State Gov’t § 10-222 and Title 7, Chapter 200 of the Maryland Rules of
Procedure.
If Dr. Lizardi files a petition for judicial review, the Board is a party and should be
served with the court’s process at the following address:
Maryland State Board of Physicians
Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
4201 Patterson Avenue
Baltimore, Maryland 21215
Notice of any petition should also be sent to the Board’s counsel at the following
address:
David Finkler
Assistant Attorney General
Maryland Department of Health

300 West Preston Street, Suite 302
Baltimore, Maryland 21201

12
making or filing a false report or record in the practice of medicine, see Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(11); and violating any provision of the Health Occupations Article, Title 14, any
rule or regulation adopted by the Board, or any State or federal law pertaining to the
practice of medicine, see Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(43). The violations of law underlying
Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(43) are Health Occ. § 1-212, which prohibits sexual misconduct;
and Code of Maryland Regulations (COMAR) 10.32.17.02 and .03, pertaining to sexual,
contact, sexual harassment, and sexual misconduct. On November 27, 2023, the case was
referred to the Office of Administrative Hearings (“OAH”) for an evidentiary hearing.

On December 1, 2023, OAH sent a notice to the parties that informed Dr. Lizardi
that a Scheduling Conference would be held on January 8, 2024, at 9:30 a.m., by video-
conference. The scheduling conference notice was sent to Dr. Lizardi at the address he
listed on his application for licensure by U.S. first-class mail. It was not returned as
undeliverable. Dr. Lizardi did not request a postponement. On January 8, 2024, at 9:42
a.m., approximately twelve minutes after the scheduled start time, the Administrative Law
Judge (“ALJ”) commenced the Scheduling Conference by video-conference. The
administrative prosecutor appeared on behalf of the State. Dr. Lizardi did not appear, nor
did anyone appear on his behalf. During the Scheduling Conference, a Prehearing
Conference was scheduled for January 30, 2024, at 9:30 a.m.

On January 8, 2024, OAH sent a Notice of Remote Prehearing Conference to the
parties that notified the parties that a Prehearing Conference would be held on January 30,

2024, at 9:30 am. The Notice of Prehearing Conference informed Dr. Lizardi that the
failure to appear or to give timely notice of his inability to appear at the Prehearing
Conference could result in a decision against him. The Notice was mailed to Dr. Lizardi’s
address of record. The mailed copy was not returned as undeliverable. On January 18,
2024, the ALJ issued a Scheduling Conference Report and Order, which again, notified the
parties that the Prehearing Conference would be held on January 30, 2024 at 9:30 a.m. by
video-conference. The Scheduling Conference Report and Order was mailed to Dr. Lizardi
at his address of record and was not returned as undeliverable.

On January 30, 2024, the ALJ held the Prehearing Conference by video-conference.
The administrative prosecutors appeared on behalf of the State. Dr. Lizardi did not appear.
At 9:47 a.m., after waiting more than fifteen minutes after the scheduled start time for Dr.
Lizardi to appear, the ALJ commenced the Prehearing Conference. The State made a
motion for default against Dr. Lizardi. The ALJ noted that Dr. Lizardi failed to appear.
The ALJ further stated that Dr. Lizardi had not asked for a postponement nor
communicated any difficulty accessing the video-conference platform. The ALJ noted that
the notice was not returned by the U.S. Postal Service.

Under OAH’s rules of procedure, “[i]f, after receiving proper notice as provided in
Regulation .05C of this chapter, a party fails to attend or participate, either personally or
through a representative, in a Prehearing Conference, hearing, or other stage of a
proceeding, the ALJ may proceed in that party’s absence or may, in accordance with the
hearing authority delegated by the agency, issue a final or proposed default order against

the defaulting party.” COMAR 28.02.01.23A.
On February 8, 2024, the ALJ issued a Proposed Default Order. In the Proposed
Default Order, the ALJ found that Dr. Lizardi failed to appear or participate in the remote
Prehearing Conference. The ALJ proposed that the Panel find Dr. Lizardi in default, adopt
as findings of fact the statements set forth in the allegations of fact section of the charges,
and conclude as a matter of law that Dr. Lizardi violated the Medical Practice Act and
sexual misconduct regulations. The ALJ recommended denying Dr. Lizardi’s application
for licensure.

The ALJ mailed, by regular first-class mail, copies of the Proposed Default Order
to Dr. Lizardi, the administrative prosecutor, and the Board at each respective address of
record. The Proposed Default Order notified the parties that they may file written
exceptions to the proposed order but must do so within 15 days of the date of the Proposed
Default Order. The Proposed Default Order stated that any exceptions and requests for a
hearing must be sent to the Board with a copy provided to the opposing party. Neither
party filed exceptions. On April 10, 2024, this case came before Disciplinary Panel A
(“Panel A”) of the Board for final disposition.

FINDINGS OF FACT

Because Panel A concludes that Dr. Lizardi has defaulted and has not filed
exceptions to the ALJ’s Proposed Default Order, the following findings of fact are adopted
from the allegations of fact in the charging document and are deemed proven by the

preponderance of the evidence:
Application for Licensure

1. On or about August 22, 2022, the Applicant submitted his Application to the
Board. The Application required the Applicant to answer “YES” or “NO” to a series of
questions that addressed his professional fitness and character. The Application further
required the Applicant to provide an explanation for all affirmative responses to those
questions.

2. The Application specifically requested that the Applicant address whether any
licensing or disciplinary board filed any complaints or charges against him or investigated
him for any reason. In response, the Applicant disclosed that the New York State Board of
Physician Conduct (the “New York Board”) suspended his New York medical license on
two occasions.

3. The Applicant stated that his first prosecution occurred in or around 1983 after
he “made the mistake of becoming romantically involved with two patients” and engaged
in “irregularities in recordkeeping” that resulted in his prosecution for the “fraudulent
practice of medicine.” The Applicant stated that he was suspended from the practice of
medicine for one year, after which he was placed on probation for five years, subject to a
series of probationary conditions.

4. The Applicant stated that his second prosecution occurred in or around 1994
when the Office of the Inspector General “raised questions about [his] transfer of two

patients from one hospital to another.” The Applicant stated that his actions culminated in
disciplinary action against him which included a two-year stayed suspension of his license
and the imposition of a $20,000 fine.

5. The Applicant denied responsibility for his misconduct, claiming that his
settlement of the second action “should not be construed as an admission that my treatment
of the two patients in question was inappropriate . . . [and that he] firmly believe[s] that the
professional medical judgment [he] exercised in these two cases was proper.”

6. The Application also requested that the Applicant disclose whether any
malpractice claims had ever been filed against him. In response, the Applicant stated that
he was the subject of two malpractice actions. The Applicant stated that the first action,
which involved an inappropriate management of a delivery occurring in 1996, resulted in
a plaintiffs verdict of $3,152,572.90. The second action, which involved a failure to
remove gauze packing after a delivery occurring in 2011, resulted in a negotiated
settlement of $15,000.

7. The Applicant further disclosed that he has pending applications for medical
licensure in 25 other states.

Board Investigative Findings
8. The Board initiated an investigation of the Applicant’s licensing and
disciplinary history after reviewing the disclosures he made in the Application.
9. The Board’s investigation revealed that on two occasions, the New York Board

suspended the Applicant’s New York medical license for reasons including sexual
misconduct, gross negligence, making false medical reports/records in the practice of
medicine, and for other professional improprieties.

10. The Board’s investigation also determined that the Applicant was the subject of
two medical malpractice claims that resulted in judgments against him and that he made
one or more material misrepresentations in his Application. The Board’s findings are set
forth infra.

New York Board Consent Order, 1987

11. In or around 1987, the New York Board issued disciplinary charges against the
Applicant consisting of 14 specifications of professional misconduct. The New York
Board alleged, inter alia, that the Applicant:

(a) while performing a pelvic examination on a patient in or
around February 1983, sexually stimulated the patient without
medical purpose, touched the patient’s breasts and questioned
her about her sexual activities;

(b) while performing a gynecologic examination in or around July
1983, propositioned a patient, met with the patient at her house
in August 1983 and had sexual relations with her, and
examined the patient in September 1983 during which he spoke
to her in an “obscene, threatening and disparaging manner”;

(c) ina medical record from in or around October 1984, falsified
the findings of a physical examination for a female patient that
he did not perform, and placed those findings in the patient’s
hospital record; and

(d) in or around March 1985, falsely claimed that he was

simultaneously working at two different hospitals at the same
time.
12. The Applicant resolved the New York Board’s charges by agreeing to a
Consent Order dated December 14, 1987, in which the New York Board found as a matter
of law that he: engaged in professional misconduct that evidenced a moral unfitness to
practice, in violation of N.Y. Educ. Law § 6509(9) (McKinney 1985); N.Y. Admin. Code
tit. 8, § 29.1(b)(5) (1981); failed to maintain an accurate medical record, in violation of
N.Y. Educ. Law § 6509(9) (McKinney 1985); N.Y. Admin. Code tit. 8, § 29.2(a)(3) (1981);
willfully harassed, abused, or intimidated a patient, either physically or verbally, in
violation of N.Y. Educ. Law § 6509(9) (McKinney 1985); N.Y. Admin. Code tit. 8, §
29.1(a)(2) (1981); practiced medicine in a fraudulent manner, in violation of N.Y. Educ.
Law § 6509(2) (McKinney 1985); and abandoned professional employment under
circumstances that seriously impaired the delivery of professional care to patients, in
violation of N.Y. Educ. Law § 6509(9) (McKinney 1985); N.Y. Admin. Code tit. 8, §
29.1(a)(1) (1981).

13. Under the terms of the 1987 Consent Order, the New York Board suspended
the Applicant’s New York medical license for six years, with all but one year of the
suspension stayed; placed the Applicant on probation for five years, subject to terms and
conditions that included the Applicant’s mandatory use of chaperones during examinations
of female patients, and his entry into psychiatric or psychological therapy.

New York Board Consent Order, 1995
14. In or around 1995, the New York Board issued disciplinary charges against the

Applicant, alleging that in 1992, he practiced medicine in a grossly negligent manner by
failing to appropriately assess a pregnant patient, failing to perform an immediate
exploratory laparotomy on the patient, and then transferring the patient to a distant hospital.

15. The Applicant resolved the New York Board’s charges by agreeing to a Consent
Order dated June 26, 1995, in which the New York Board found as a matter of law that the
Applicant’s actions constituted practicing medicine with gross negligence, in violation of
N.Y. Educ. Law § 6530(4) (McKinney Supp. 1995). The 1995 Consent Order specifically
states that the Applicant pleaded guilty to practicing with gross negligence.

16. Under the terms of the 1995 Consent Order, the New York Board issued a two-
year stayed suspension against the Applicant’s license and placed him on probation for
three years, to run concurrently with his stayed suspension.

Malpractice history

17. The Board’s investigation revealed that the Applicant was the subject of two
malpractice actions, occurring in 1996 and 2011, respectively. The first action resulted in
a plaintiff's verdict of $3,152,572.90. The second action resulted in a negotiated settlement
of $15,000.

Material misrepresentations on the Application

18. The Board’s investigation also revealed that the Applicant made one or more
material misrepresentations with respect to the actions the New York Board took against
him. The Applicant stated in his Application that he was disciplined for a “romantic”
involvement with two patients. The 1987 New York Board Order, however, states that the

Applicant engaged in sexual improprieties with two female patients during gynecologic
examinations and willfully harassed, abused or intimidated one of the patients, either
physically or verbally.

19. The Applicant also stated in his Application that his settlement of the 1995
action against him should not be construed as an admission that his treatment of patients
was inappropriate. The 1995 New York Board Order, however, states that the Applicant
willingly pleaded guilty to “practicing the profession of medicine with gross negligence.”

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Panel A finds Dr. Lizardi in default based upon his failure to appear or participate
at the Prehearing Conference on January 30, 2024, at OAH. See State Gov’t § 10-210(4).
Panel A finds, under Health Occ. § 14-205(b)(3)(i), reasons that are grounds for the denial
of Dr. Lizardi’s application for medical licensure in Maryland under Health Occ. § 14-404.
Based upon the foregoing findings of fact, Panel A concludes that Dr. Lizardi: is guilty of
immoral and unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ.
§ 14-404(a)(3)(i) and (ii); willfully made or filed a false report or record in the practice of
medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(11); was disciplined by a licensing,
certifying, or disciplinary authority or convicted or disciplined by a court of any state or
country for an act that would be grounds for disciplinary action, in violation of Health Occ.
§ 14-404(a)(21); and violated a regulation adopted by the Board, and a State or law
pertaining to the practice of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(43). With
respect to Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(21), the acts that would be grounds for disciplinary

action under Health Occ. § 14-404(a) include immoral and unprofessional conduct in the

10
