IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE
ODIANOSEN ORIAIFO * MARYLAND STATE
Applicant * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS

* CASE NO. 2224-0047B

CONSENT ORDER

On January 23, 2024, Disciplinary Panel B (“Panel B” or the “Panel”) of the
Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”) notified Odianosen Oriaifo (the
“Applicant”) of Panel B’s intent to deny his application for physician assistant licensure
under the Maryland Physician Assistants Act (the “Act”), codified at Md. Code Ann.,
Health Occ. §§ 15-101 et seg. (2021 Repl. Vol. and 2023 Supp.).

The notice of intent to deny was based upon the following statutory grounds:

Health Occ. § 15-303. License qualifications.

(a) To qualify for a license, an applicant shall:

(2) Be of good moral character;

Health Occ. § 15-311. Denial of Licensure.

Subject to the hearing provisions of § 15-315 of this subtitle, a disciplinary panel,

on the affirmative vote of a majority of a quorum, may deny a license to any

applicant for:

(1) Any of the reasons that are grounds for disciplinary action under
§ 15-314 of this subtitle;

Health Occ. § 15-314. Discipline of physician assistants.

(a) Subject to the hearing provisions of § 15-315 of this subtitle, a disciplinary
CONSENT

I, Odianosen Oriaifo, acknowledge that I have consulted with counsel before signing
this Consent Order.

By this Consent, I agree to be bound by this Consent Order and all its terms and
conditions and understand that the Panel will not entertain any request for amendments or
modifications to any condition.

I assert that I am aware of my right to a formal evidentiary hearing, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. § 15-315, and Md. Code Ann., State Gov’t §§ 10-201 ef seq.
concerning the charges. I waive this right and elect to sign this Consent Order instead.

I acknowledge the validity and enforceability of this Consent Order as if entered
after the conclusion of a formal evidentiary hearing in which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my behalf, and to all
other substantive and procedural protections as provided by law. I waive those procedural
and substantive protections. I acknowledge the legal authority and the jurisdiction of the
Panel to initiate these proceedings and to issue and enforce this Consent Order. I
voluntarily enter into, and agree to comply, with the terms and conditions set forth in this
Consent Order as a resolution of the charges. I waive any right to contest the Findings of
Fact and Conclusions of Law and Order set out in this Consent Order. I waive all rights to
appeal this Consent Order.

I sign this Consent Order, without reservation, and fully understand its language and
the meaning of its terms and conditions.

Ob/i2| 2024

Date Odianosen Oriaifo
Applicant

Signature On File

1]
NOTARY

STATE OF | Is yard

CITY/COUNTY OF Aut Avene |

I HEREBY CERTIFY that, on __ this | a day of
~_Vune, , 2024, before me, a Notary Public of the foregoing

State and City/County, did personally appear Odianosen Oriaifo and made oath in due

form of law that signing the foregoing Consent Order was his voluntary act and deed.

AS WITNESSTH my hand and seal.

My commission expires: ly fi LY

 

  

Sp, Vpn “Ot eseeeet i
“1 aRUNOe.

CG
~S
Mw
panel, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum, may reprimand
any physician assistant, place any physician assistant on probation, or
suspend or revoke a license if the physician assistant:

(1) _ Fraudulently or deceptively obtains or attempts to obtain a license
for the applicant or licensee or for another;

(3) Is guilty of:
(ii) | Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;
(1) Willfully makes or files a false report or record in the practice of

medicine;

(21) Is disciplined by a licensing or disciplinary authority or convicted or
disciplined by a court of any state or country or disciplined by any
branch of the United States uniformed services or the Veterans’
Administrative for an act that would be grounds for disciplinary
action under this section;

(36) Willfully makes a false representation when seeking or making
application for licensure or any other application related to the
practice of medicine[.]

Regarding § 15-314(a)(21), acts that would be grounds for disciplinary action under
Health Occ.-§ 15-314(a) consist of the following:
(3) Is guilty of:

(ii) — Unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine;

(11) = Willfully makes or files a false report or record in the practice of
medicine[.]

On May 22, 2024, Panel B was convened as a Disciplinary Committee for Case
Resolution (“DCCR”) in this matter. Based on the negotiations occurring as a result of this
DCCR, the Applicant agreed to enter into this Consent Order, consisting of Findings of
Fact, Conclusions of Law, Order, and Consent.

2
FINDINGS OF FACT

Panel B makes the following findings of fact:
L Introduction

1. The Applicant included several misrepresentations about his work history
and fitness to practice medicine in his Application to the Board. For example, the Applicant
failed to disclose that he had a license to practice medicine in the United Kingdom (“UK”)
from November 11, 2010 until on or about March 1, 2022. The Applicant also failed to
disclose that, in the UK, the General Medical Council (“GMC”)! erased him from the
national medical register after the Medical Practitioners Tribunal Service (the “Tribunal”)”
determined that he engaged in misconduct when he falsified his timesheets in order to
receive compensation for more hours than he actually worked.
Il. Application for Licensure

2. On or about September 6, 2022, the Applicant submitted his Application to
the Board.

3. On page four of the Application, it requests that the Applicant list “all states

or other jurisdictions in which [you] ever held a license/certificate/registration to practice

' The GMC is a public body that manages the official UK medical register, which is the list of all
doctors registered to practice in the UK. The GMC can investigate a doctor if there is a concern
about his or her fitness to practice, and it can refer a case to the Medical Practitioners Tribunal
Service for hearing.

? The Medical Practitioners Tribunal Service is an independent tribunal in the UK that holds
hearings for doctors whose fitness to practice medicine is called into question. After a hearing, it
may also impose sanctions.
in ANY other health occupation. . . . If you have never been licensed in any other health

occupation, write N/A here.” The Applicant wrote, “N/A.”

4, On pages five and six of the Application, the Applicant answered “No” to

the following questions in the in the section entitled, “Character and Fitness Questions”:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

“Has a state licensing or disciplinary board (including Maryland), a
comparable body in the armed services or the Veterans
Administration, ever taken action against your license? Such actions
include, but are not limited to, limitations of practice, required
education admonishment or reprimand, suspension, probation or
revocation.”

“Has any licensing or disciplinary board in any jurisdiction
(including Maryland), a comparable body in the armed services or
the Veterans Administration, ever filed any complaints or charges
against you or investigated you for any reason?”

“Has a hospital, related health care institution, HMO, or alternative
health care system ever investigated you or ever brought charges
against you?”

“Has a hospital, related health care institution, HMO, or alternative
health care system ever denied your application; failed to renew your
privileges, including your privileges as a resident; or limited,
restricted, suspended, or revoked your privileges in any way?”

“Have you ever voluntarily resigned or terminated a contract with
any hospital, HMO, other health care facility, health care provider,
institution, armed services or the Veterans Administration while
under investigation by that institution for disciplinary reasons?”

5. On page seven of the Application, the Applicant signed his name underneath

the following certification:

I certify that I have personally reviewed all responses to the items in this
application and that the information I have given is true and correct to the
best of my knowledge and that any false information provided as part of my
application may be the cause for the denial of my application. I also certify
that | am thoroughly familiar with the Statute (MD. Code Ann., Health Occ.

4
15-101 et seq.) and Code of Maryland Regulations (COMAR) 10.32.03
which governs the practice of Physician Assistants in Maryland.

6. Further, on page seven, the Applicant signed his name underneath a release
in which he authorized the Board to request any information necessary to process his
Application from any person or agency, including “former and current employers,
government agencies, the National Practitioners Data Bank, the Federation of State
Medical Boards, hospitals and other licensing bodies.”

7. In processing the Application, Board staff obtained the Applicant’s
Practitioner Profile from the Federation of State Medical Boards on September 20, 2023.
The Practitioner Profile stated that the Applicant obtained a medical license in the UK on
November 11, 2010. Further, it stated that the GMC issued a warning to the Applicant on
April 9, 2015; a suspension on March 22, 2016; and another suspension on September 21,
2020.

Ill. Board Investigation

8. After reviewing this information, Board staff sent an email to the Applicant
on September 20, 2023, requesting that he provide an explanation for the GMC’s actions
against him and “any/all supporting documentation.”

9. On September 22, 2023, the Applicant replied via email to Board staff and
provided information about the actions taken against him by the GMC. The Applicant
stated:

In 2016, there [were] some allegations of fraud made against me by NHS

Grampian to the GMC. These were in relation to alterations in my time sheet

and over-payment for hours not worked. .. . I requested for a voluntary

erasure because I was no longer in the country, which was denied. The case

5
was referred to a tribunal and the outcome was a revocation of my license in

the UK.

10. The Applicant attached to his email documents relating to the GMC’s

investigation; the investigative file, decision, and recommendation from the NHS Scotland

Counter Fraud Services;? and the outcome of the Tribunal hearing.

11. The investigative file from the NHS Scotland Counter Fraud Services

revealed the following information:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

On or about February 4, 2016, the NHS hospital where the Applicant
worked referred his case to the GMC due to potential fraud in
relation to his timesheets.

By letter dated March 11, 2016, the GMC informed the Applicant of
its investigation and notified him of an interim order hearing before
the Tribunal on March 22, 2016.

By letter dated March 14, 2016, the Tribunal also notified the
Applicant of the interim order hearing on March 22, 2016.

By letter dated March 23, 2016, the Tribunal notified the Applicant
that the Tribunal met on March 22, 2016, that it decided to proceed
in the Applicant’s absence, and that it suspended the Applicant’s
registration beginning on March 22, 2016.

By email dated June 29, 2016, NHS Counter Fraud Services staff
informed GMC staff that they have been unable to locate the
Applicant, but they did learn that after the Applicant “was
challenged about timesheet anomalies... he... unexpectedly
vacated the property which [he was] renting in [the UK] and flew
from there to Baltimore, USA[.]”

The Tribunal held interim order review hearings on September 12,
2016; February 27, 2017; August 16, 2017; February 6, 2018; July
25, 2018; November 2, 2018; April 17, 2019; November 11, 2019;

3 NHS Scotland Counter Fraud Services is part of the National Health Service in Scotland.
The Counter Fraud Services investigates fraud and corruption in the NHS Scotland.
April 30, 2020; and October 29, 2020, all of which were held in the
Applicant’s absence amid ongoing attempts by the GMC, Tribunal,
and the NHS Counter Fraud Services to locate him. At each

hearing, the Tribunal determined that the interim order of suspension
remained appropriate.

12. Through its investigation, Board staff found that a search for the Applicant
on the UK’s medical register through the GMC’s public website returns the following
result: “Not Registered — Erased after Fitness to Practise panel hearing.” Additionally, the
Applicant’s page on the GMC’s public website includes a link to the Tribunal’s Record of
Determinations, which is labeled, “public record.’””4
The Tribunal’s Record of Determinations

13. The Tribunal held a hearing on the allegations against the Applicant on or
about February 22, 2022. The Tribunal’s Record of Determinations regarding the Applicant
is dated February 22, 2022 through March 1, 2022. The Tribunal’s factual findings

included but were not limited to the following:

(a) | The Applicant worked as a locum doctor at Dr. Gray’s Hospital in
Elgin, Scotland between May 23, 2014 and January 26, 2016;

(b) On more than one occasion between May 27, 2014 and January 26,
2016, the Applicant falsified his timesheets so as to “claim for hours
in excess of the hours [he] had worked” and “receive payment for
hours which [he was] not entitled to be paid for”;

(c) |The Applicant “knew the information included in the timesheets . . .
was untrue in that it did not accurately reflect the hours that [he] had
Worked”;

(d) The Applicant’s actions “were dishonest”;

4 Odianosen Demudia Oriaifo, GENERAL MEDICAL COUNCIL, https://www.gme-
uk.org/doctors/7074649 (last visited Jan. 22, 2024).

7
(e)

(f)

The Applicant submitted a timesheet dated January 4, 2016 on which
he completed and signed the “client” section in the name of “Dr. A”
even though the Applicant “knew that Dr. A had not completed and
signed the ‘client’ section of the [January 4] timesheet when [the
Applicant] submitted it”;

While working at Dr. Gray’s Hospital on January 26, 2016, the
Applicant left between 12:00 and 12:30 after being informed about
“the irregularities in [his] timesheets” and he failed to do the
following:

(i) notify colleagues of his intention to leave Dr. Gray’s;

Gi) complete the allocated hours of his shift;

(iii) arrange suitable cover for his post;

(iv) | deliver a presentation to colleagues at 12:30; and

(v) _ respond to attempts made by another doctor to contact
him by telephone.

14. The Tribunal made its determination as to whether the Applicant is impaired

to practice medicine on or about March 1, 2022. The Tribunal’s determinations included

but were not limited to the following:

(a)

(b)

(c)

«“,

The Applicant’s “actions fell seriously below the standards expected
and would be considered wholly unacceptable by members of the
public and profession alike. The Tribunal was satisfied that [the
Applicant’s] dishonesty amounted to misconduct which was
serious”;

The Applicant’s behavior of forging his colleague’s signature “would
be considered deplorable by fellow practitioners” and “his actions
fell seriously below the standards of conduct reasonably expected of
a doctor and amounted to misconduct which was serious”;

The Applicant’s behavior of leaving the hospital premises “in the
middle of his shift without notifying anybody or arranging suitable
cover... . potentially put patients at risk of harm.” The Tribunal
determined that this behavior fell “seriously below the standards

8
expected and amounted to misconduct that was serious.”

15. After determining that the facts proved “serious misconduct,” the Tribunal
determined that the Applicant’s fitness to practice medicine was “impaired by reason of
misconduct.”

16. In considering a sanction, the Tribunal noted the Applicant’s “dishonesty . .
. was both persistent and covered upf[.]” The Tribunal “determined to erase [the
Applicant’s] name from the Medical Register.” Erasure of the Applicant’s name from the
Medical Register “is the only sanction sufficient to uphold the overarching objective to
protect the public, maintain public confidence in the profession and uphold proper
professional standards.”

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Pursuant to Health Occ. § 15-311(1), Panel B denies a physician assistant license to
the Applicant for the reasons that are grounds for action under Health Occ. § 15-314,
concluding that the Applicant: fraudulently or deceptively obtained or attempted to obtain
a license for the applicant or licensee or for another, in violation of Health Occ. § 15-
314(a)(1); is guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice of medicine, in violation of
Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(3)(ii); willfully made or filed a false report or record in the practice
of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(11); was disciplined by a licensing or
disciplinary authority or convicted or disciplined by a court of any state or country or
disciplined by any branch of the United States uniformed services or the Veterans’
Administration for an act that would be grounds for disciplinary action under this section,
in violation of Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(21); and willfully made a false representation when

9
seeking or making application for licensure or any other application related to the practice
of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(36). The acts underlying the violation
of Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(21) would be grounds for disciplinary action under Health Occ.
§ 15-314(a)(3)(ii) and Health Occ. § 15-314(a)(11). Furthermore, Panel B concludes that
the Applicant does not meet the good moral character requirement for licensure of Health
Oce. § 15-303(a)(2).
ORDER

It is, thus, on the affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of Panel B, hereby

ORDERED that Applicant Odianosen Oriaifo’s Physician Assistant Application
for Licensure, which the Applicant submitted to the Board on or about September 6, 2022,
to practice as a physician assistant in Maryland, is DENIED; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order goes into effect upon the signature of the
Executive Director of the Board or her designee. The Executive Director or her designee
signs the Consent Order on behalf of Panel B; and it is further

ORDERED that this Consent Order is a public document.

Signature On File

Christine A. Farrelly,/Exécuti ive irector
Maryland State Board of Ph

Ov 4/2024
Dat
