Harbhajan Ajrawat, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel B
RE: Khin M. Tun, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2

I understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender I am waiving
my right to contest any charges that would result from Panel B’s investigative findings in
a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to be represented by
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and
all other substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to
appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards
and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I also
understand that in the event I apply for licensure in any form in any other state or
jurisdiction that this Permanent Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the
Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action,
pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seq. and that this Permanent Letter of
Surrender constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel B.

I affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to
surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of Controlled
Substances Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of
Surrender,
my license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree
that I have no right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice medicine in
the State of Maryland. I further acknowledge that the Board is not obligated to consider
any application for licensure or reinstatement that I might file at a future date.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout
proceedings before Panel B, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to
signing this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I understand both the nature of Panel B’s
actions and this Permanent Letter of Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and
comprehend the language, meaning and terms and effect of this Permanent Letter of
Surrender. | make this decision knowingly and voluntarily.

Very truly yours,

Signature On File

Khin M-Tun, M.D.

