Khin M. Tun, M.D.

Date: February 13, 2025

Harbhajan Ajrawat, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Khin M. Tun, M.D. License Number: D17992
Case Number: 2225-0122

Dear Dr. Ajrawat and Members of Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (‘Health Occ.”)
§14-403 (2021 Repl. Vol. & 2023 Supp.), I have decided to PERMANENTLY
SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number
D17992, effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not
give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and
cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State
of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ.
§§ 14-101 et seg. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this
Permanent Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I
am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT,
and upon Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that during a Board investigation in January 2025, an evaluation
revealed that I am unable to practice medicine safely due to the existence of health
conditions. I have decided to permanently surrender my license to practice medicine in the
State of Maryland! due to my current health conditions and retirement and to avoid further
investigation and the issuance of disciplinary charges.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender due to my health conditions and retirement and
to avoid the issuance of charges.

I understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender I am waiving my
right to contest any charges that would result from Panel B’s investigative findings in a

' Upon Disciplinary Panel B’s acceptance of this permanent Letter of Surrender, I acknowledge that the terms
and conditions of the Consent Order issued by Panel B on January 27, 2025, are terminated as moot.

