David T. Isaacs

pues Dil ZZ , 2024

Harbhajan Ajrawat, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel B

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
David T. Isaacs License Number: D24289
Case Number: 2224-0034B

Dear Dr. Ajrawat and Members of the Disciplinary Panel B,

Please be advised that I have decided to permanently SURRENDER my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D24289, effective
immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice
or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe
medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it
is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md. Code Ann., Health Occ.
§§ 14-101 et seq. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this
Permanent Letter of Surrender, I understand that the permanent surrender of my license
means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

T understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT,
and upon Disciplinary Panel B’s (“Panel B”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel B of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

T acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of my practice and on May
6, 2024, Panel B issued disciplinary charges against me under Health Occ. § 14-
404(a)(3)(ii). Specifically, Panel B alleged that I used blank prescriptions sheets from
another physician to obtain CDS medication and I wrote prescriptions for Schedule II
medications for myself and for a family member. A copy of the charges is attached as
Attachment |. I have decided to permanently surrender my license to practice medicine in
the State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these disciplinary
charges.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary
charges. I acknowledge that for all purposes related to medical licensure in Maryland, the
charges will be treated as if proven.
