Henrv H. Holcomb. M.D.

Mark D. Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Henry Holcomb, M.D.

License Number: D27903

Case Number: 2224-0079

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”) §14-403,
Thave decided to SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland, License
Number D27903, effective immediately. ] understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not
give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot
prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as
it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 ef seg. and
other applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I
understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed
individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of the
Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

lL acknowledge that the Board received a complaint alleging that | engaged in inappropriate
communication with a patient. The Board began an investigation of these allegations. I have
decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid further
investigation. I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure that these allegations
shall be treated as proven and that these allegations support a conclusion that I violated Health
Occ. §14-404(a)(3)(i) and (ii) (is guilty of immoral and unprofessional conduct in the practice of
medicine) and Health Occ. §1-212 for violating the Board’s sexual misconduct regulations.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this
Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the aforementioned
allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations. I understand that by executing this Letter
of Surrender | am waiving my right to contest any charges that would issue from Panel A’s
investigative findings in a formal evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to
counsel, to confront witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other
