another. Physician A agreed and the Respondent began that medicine
in approximately early 2021;

The Respondent stated, “I left the office with prescriptions, and...
when they ran out, which was in early 2021 . . . I would send
prescriptions to [Physician A’s] home, [he] would review them, and
he would send them back to me at my homej;]”

The Respondent was able to send the prescription sheets because he
took approximately 30-35 of them from the office and kept them at
his home when he retired. The prescription sheets had the names of
all three doctors from the Medical Practice on them, including
Physician A;

In April 2022, the Respondent contacted Physician A via text
message to tell him he had a problem refilling the Schedule IT
medicines even though he still had Schedule II medicines left over;

The Respondent stated, “. . . [S]ometimes I wasn’t taking the full
dose and so there may have been some left over[;]”

During the Board interview, the Respondent reviewed copies of
original paper prescriptions from the Pharmacy for Schedule II
medications that Physician A signed for the Respondent, dated
between 2014 and 2023. After reviewing them, the Respondent
stated that he wrote “[v]irtually all of them[;]

The Respondent stated that he wrote his “name, address, the
indication for the medicine, the diagnosis, then the medicine, dose,
quantity, and the instructions to take, and then [he] would give it to
[Physician A] to sign[;]”

During the Board interview, the Respondent reviewed copies of
original paper prescriptions from the Pharmacy for Schedule II
medications that Physician A signed for the Family Member, dated
between 2016 and 2019. After reviewing them, the Respondent stated
that he wrote all of the prescriptions for the Family Member, and gave
them to Physician A for his signature;

The Respondent did not initially diagnose the Family Member’s
condition, nor did he start the Family Member on the Schedule II
medication. The Respondent did not conduct any examinations or
evaluations of the Family Member. The Respondent did not maintain
