The ALJ proposed a reprimand, a six-month suspension of the Respondent’s license, a
$35,000 fine, and a course in ethics. The ALJ emphasized the Respondent’s extensive disciplinary
history with the Board and that the Respondent “committed these acts deliberately, i.e., willfully.”
While the evidence does not show that the Respondent caused patient harm, the ALJ found there
was potential to cause significant patient harm. The ALJ further noted that the conduct at issue,
occurring six times over three months, demonstrates a pattern of detrimental conduct and further
noted that the Respondent pursued financial gain over the welfare of his patients. The ALJ also
mentioned that the patients at issue were especially vulnerable, being elderly and residing in a
long-term care facility during the COVID-19 Pandemic. The ALJ also relied on the unsuccessful
previous attempts at rehabilitation, mentioning that the Respondent had previously been
disciplined for conduct related creating a false medical record.

The Respondent took exception to the ALJ’s analysis concerning the factors taken into
account in arriving at the proposed sanction. The Respondent contends that the ALJ erred by
finding that his conduct was deliberate, arguing that his actions were not premeditated. The
Respondent further asks for credit for being cooperative with the Board’s investigation, noting that
he voluntarily admitted the misconduct. Unlike the ALJ’s finding of a detrimental pattern, the
Respondent categorizes his conduct as an isolated matter. The Respondent also argues that the
ALJ should not have found a lack of rehabilitative potential. According to the Respondent, in a
previous disciplinary action against him, where he “had entered a false note for a hospital patient,
the Respondent did intentionally write a false note... This case is completely different. The
Respondent had no inkling that an error had occurred until July. There was no intention of filing
a false note.” The Respondent also takes issue with the ALJ’s finding that he was motivated by

financial gain: “This money was promptly returned when the billing errors were discovered.” The

20

