and response program is immune from civil or criminal liability related to those actions, unless the
health care provider acts with willful misconduct.”

The ALJ found that neither statute applies to the Respondent’s circumstances in this
administrative action. First, the ALJ determined that both statutes apply to “civil or criminal
liability,” not to administrative actions. See, e.g., Matter of Cricket Wireless, LLC, 259 Md. App.
44, 68 (2023) (an administrative action against a professional license “is neither civil nor criminal
in nature”). Second, the ALJ did not accept that the Respondent acted with an honest intention
and thus did not act in good faith. See 374 Md. 665, 681 (2003).> Third, the ALJ also found that
the Respondent failed to establish that the Respondent’s actions with respect to the six assessments
at issue were “under” or “in accordance with” the proclamation or a disease surveillance and
response program. The ALJ did not accept that “documenting and billing for patient examinations
that he never performed” were in conformity with any order or proclamation issued the governor
or Secretary of Health. The orders and directives at issue were to ensure that each resident was
evaluated at least daily for a possible COVID-19 infection. For the six assessments at issue, the
Respondent did not evaluate the patients, despite documenting that he did. The ALJ thus did not
find that the Respondent is immune from administrative sanctions in this case.

On exceptions, the Respondent relies upon an Opinion of the Attorney General, dated
December 28, 2015, to argue that physicians are entitled to immunity in administrative actions.
The Respondent contends that immunity excluding administrative acts and applying to only civil
and criminal acts is a “narrow interpretation [that] contradicts the intent of the emergency
proclamation and legal guidance provided by the Attorney General’s office.” But the Attorney

General Opinion the Respondent relies upon states, “Based on this plain language, it is our view

> The ALJ had already determined that the Respondent’s offenses were willful.
17

