whom the ALJ found very credible in both demeanor and knowledge of the subject matter, testified
that she would go to where the patient is located and, if the patient were not there, she would ask
the nurse where the patient was, then look for the patient’s medical record, which would indicate
whether the patient was no longer at the facility.

The Respondent argues on exceptions that his actions can only be found willful if there is
proof that he acted with an intent to deceive. According to the Respondent, fraud requires an intent
to deceive. The Respondent also argues that his errors were an honest mistake, inadvertent, or
accidental. According to the Respondent, the “State cannot rely on negligence, oversight, or
administrative errors to meet the threshold for fraud.”

Panel B accepts the ALJ’s findings. The Kim case, which governs this issue, explains the
requirements of willful conduct in the context of § 14-404(a) of the Health Occupations Article.
In this context, Kim does not require proof of an intent to deceive or to commit fraud. As stated in
Kim, “‘Willful,’ for purposes of § 14-404, requires proof that the conduct at issue was done
intentionally, not that it was committed with an intent to deceive or with malice.” Kim, 423 Md.
at 546. The Panel does not accept the Respondent’s contention that the willful element in the §
14-404 provisions require a showing of an intent to deceive or to commit fraud. And the Panel
further finds that the Respondent’s acts with respect to the conduct at issue were intentional and
voluntary. The Respondent’s conduct was not accidental, was not inadvertent, and was not the
result of honest mistakes. The Panel adopts the ALJ’s reasoning on this issue.

The evidence demonstrates that to complete the medical assessments properly would
require meeting with the patient. There is no dispute that the records of medical assessments that
did not take place at issue were completed without the Respondent meeting with the patients. The

Respondent intentionally recorded medical information of patients’ conditions for medical
