According to the ALJ, there must be an intent to commit the act, but it does not require knowledge
that the act will cause an illegal result.

The ALJ then addressed the Respondent’s claim that his actions were accidental. The ALJ
found that the Respondent’s claim that his actions were merely accidental was “illogical and
unconvincing.” The ALJ addressed the Respondent’s position that he checked the facility’s census
in the morning and would partially fill out assessments. The ALJ did not accept that the
Respondent’s actions were accidental or an honest mistake.

The ALJ explained in detail why he did not accept the Respondent’s claim that the false
records were accidental or the result of honest mistakes. The ALJ found that assessments partially
completed before he left for work, as a witness for the Respondent testified, would not account for
the records at issue, which were fully completed. The ALJ found that to properly fully complete
the assessments would require the practitioner assessing a patient’s condition to be in the presence
of the patient being assessed. The ALJ also based his determination on the layers of processes that
are available to ensure that a physician would know that a patient was no longer at the facility,
including the PCC and the physical chart. The Respondent failed to consult these processes. The
ALJ found that the Respondent’s claim—that because he checked the facility’s census before
patients were discharged on that day caused the false records—unconvincing. The ALJ noted that
only two of the six records at issue involved patients who left the facility on the same day as the
purported assessment, thus the Respondent’s reliance on viewing the census does not account for
the other four records. The ALJ, moreover, relied-on healthcare professionals who testified,
including those who the Respondent presented as witnesses, that they were unaware of a similar
occurrence (although one witness who testified was aware of a similar occurrence through perusing

publications on physician discipline). And one witness of the Respondent, a nurse practitioner,

