Respondent also claims the ALJ erred in finding that his actions had the potential to cause
significant patient harm. The Respondent notes that false medical records concerning patients’
COVID-19 symptoms filed while the patients were not staying at the nursing facility could not
have been relied upon to cause patient harm, because the patients’ COVID-19 status where the
patients were at the time would not have depended upon the Respondent’s false assessments.

The Respondent’s logic—that the false medical records he produced did not have the
potential to cause patient harm because the assessments would not be relied upon as the result of
the patients being in another location—does have merit. This point, however, is insufficient to
impose a less severe sanction than the one the ALJ recommended. The Panel finds the ALJ’s
recommended sanction is appropriate and adopts it. The Respondent deliberately produced false
medical records. While, under these peculiar circumstances, the patients’ locations most likely
prevented them, and others, from being harmed by the false records, the fact that the Respondent
was willing to intentionally engage in falsifying medical records cannot be tolerated. Further, the
Respondent’s previous discipline involving intentionally falsifying a medical record indicates a
lack of rehabilitative potential. The Panel does not find that the Respondent failed to cooperate
with the Board’s investigation, but the Panel does not accept the Respondent’s claims that his
conduct was a result of honest mistakes, a typical paperwork error, or an unintentional paperwork
system flaw. The Respondent intentionally produced records that were deliberately false and
intentionally billed for assessments that did not take place. The Respondent’s conduct also does
not indicate an isolated incident. The six assessments that the Respondent intentionally falsified
occurred over a period of several weeks. The Panel also agrees with the ALJ's proposed findings
that the Respondent was motivated by financial gain and that the Respondent has an extensive

disciplinary history with the Board.

21

