assessments that he did not perform, and he intentionally billed for these medical assessments that
he did not perform. The Respondent did not record medical information at issue about the patients’
conditions accidentally. The medical records at issue purposely indicated that he medically
evaluated the patients on days when he did not evaluate those patients. As correctly stated by the
ALI, “all six assessments were documents completely — not partially - meaning that at some point
in the day he intentionally completed documentation for examinations he never performed.” (PD
at 23.) If he could not locate a patient for an assessment, there were many avenues available to
the Respondent to determine whether the patients were at the facility. Yet the Respondent still
completed medical forms indicating that the patients at issue had been at the facility and underwent
medical assessments or examinations by him, when the patients were not present at the facility,
and the Respondent did not assess or examine the patients as he indicated on these forms. The
Respondent’s failure to use the available resources to attempt to determine the patients’ locations,
when he did not meet with the patients, indicates an intent on the Respondent’s part to document
medical assessments that did not take place. It shows his intent was not to record accurate medical
information, but instead to complete assessment forms and bill for medical acts he did not perform.

The Panel does not find that the Respondent acted in good faith or inadvertently with
respect to the conduct at issue. Certainly, medical records sometimes contain honest mistakes, but
these are not those records. This is not a situation in which a health care professional
absentmindedly wrote an incorrect date, measurement, or observation on a form. To explain how
the false records were produced, the Respondent relies on the challenges he faced by the COVID-
19 Pandemic. The Panel does not find, though, that the circumstances of the COVID-19 Pandemic
indicate that the Respondent’s actions were unintentional. The evidence included testimony from

other healthcare professionals who worked during the COVID-19 Pandemic, and who (except for

