Peter V. Blaes, M.D.

Mark D. Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Peter V. Blaes, M.D. License Number: D0038700
Case Number: 2225-0216

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403, I have decided to PERMANENTLY SURRENDER my license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D0038700, effective immediately. I
understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment
to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or
otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the
Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 ef seg. and other
applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Permanent Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT,
and upon Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board received multiple complaints between November
2025 and December 2025 from patients expressing difficulty with obtaining their medical
records from my office. During the course of a subsequent Board investigation of these
allegations, I informed the Board that all patient records had been shredded.

I further acknowledge that the Board received an additional complaint in January
2025 from a healthcare practitioner alleging that the patients transferred from my office
were on inappropriate and dangerous medication regimens that require extensive tapering
of benzodiazepines.

I have decided to permanently surrender my license to practice medicine in the
State of Maryland to avoid further investigation. | recognize that, for all purposes relevant
to medical licensure that these allegations support a conclusion that I violated Health Occ.

