iil,

4. The Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent
forms requested by the Board and MPRP, including
release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to make verbal and
written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board to
disclose relevant information from MPRP records and files in a
public order. The Respondent shall not withdraw his
release/consent;

5. The Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms
to authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive
from) outside entities (including all of the Respondent’s current
therapists and treatment providers) verbal and written information
concerning the Respondent and to ensure that MPRP is authorized
to receive the medical records of the Respondent, including, but
not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and
treatment records. The Respondent shall not withdraw his
release/consent; and

6. The Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms
or conditions including terms or conditions of the Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s)
constitutes a violation of this Consent Order.

MPRP will arrange for any evaluation(s) that MPRP determines are
necessary to assess the Respondent’s safety to return to the practice of
medicine. The Respondent shall submit to the evaluation(s) as directed
by MPRP.

The Respondent shall successfully complete MPRP and be found safe to
practice by MPRP.

Within SIX (6) MONTHS, the Respondent is required to take and
successfully complete a course in professionalism. The following terms
apply:

1. it is the Respondent’s responsibility to locate, enroll in and obtain the
disciplinary panel’s approval of the course before the course is begun;

2. the disciplinary panel will not accept a course taken over the internet;
3. the Respondent must provide documentation to the disciplinary panel
that the Respondent has successfully completed the course;

4. the course may not be used to fulfill the continuing medical education
credits required for license renewal;

5. the Respondent is responsible for the cost of the course.
