MPRP. Dr. Dietrick shall also sign any written release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside
entities (including all of Dr. Dietrick’s current therapists and treatment
providers) verbal and written information concerning Dr. Dietrick and to
ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical records of Dr.
Dietrick, including, but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol
treatment records. Dr. Dietrick shall not withdraw his release/consent;
AND IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that if, upon the authorization of MPRP, Dr.
Dietrick transfers to a rehabilitation program in another state, his failure to comply with
any term or condition of the out-of-state’s rehabilitation program constitutes a violation of
this Order. Dr. Dietrick shall also sign any out-of-state written release/consent forms to
authorize the Board to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) the out-of-state
program verbal and written information concerning Dr. Dietrick, and to ensure that the
Board is authorized to receive the medical records of him, including, but not limited to,
mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment records. Dr. Dietrick shall not
withdraw the release/consent; and it is further
ORDERED that, after a minimum period of THREE YEARS, if Dr. Dietrick has
complied with all terms and conditions of probation, and upon MPRP’s determination that
he can safely practice without additional monitoring, Dr. Dietrick may submit a written
petition to the Board requesting termination of probation. After consideration of the
petition, the probation may be terminated through an order of Panel A. Dr. Dietrick may
be required to appear before Panel A to discuss his petition for termination of probation or
the Panel may choose to administratively terminate the probation. Panel A will grant the

petition to terminate the probation if Dr. Dietrick has complied with all of the probationary

terms and conditions, MPRP determines that Dr. Dietrick can safely practice without
