Mark Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: William Suddath, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2

hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses, to give
testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and procedural
protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

[understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards, and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. 1 also
understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or
jurisdiction that this Permanent Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the
Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant
to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seq., and that this Permanent Letter of Surrender
constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

1 affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to
surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substance Registration to the Office of Controlled
Substances Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of Surrender,
my license will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree that J have no
tight to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings
before Pane! A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this
Permanent Letter of Surrender. I understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this
Permanent Letter of Surrender fully. 1 acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the
language, meaning and terms and effect of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I make this
decision knowingly and voluntarily,

Very truly yours,

Signature On File

William Suddath, M.D.
