Mark D. Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Walter Gianelle, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2

I have decided to permanently surrender my license to practice medicine in the
State of Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of the allegations, my
violation of the December 15, 2022 Order to Terminate Suspension and Impose
Probation, and due to my retirement. I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical
licensure that the allegations regarding my billing for services under the name of a
different provider shall be treated as proven and that these allegations support a
conclusion that I violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a) (3)(ii) (unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine), (11) (willfully makes or files a false report or record in the practice
of medicine).

I wish to make it clear that | have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and
prosecution of the aforementioned allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations.
| understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender | am waiving my right
to contest any charges that would issue from Panel A’s investigative findings in a formal
evidentiary hearing at which | would have had the right to counsel, to confront witnesses,
to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and all other substantive and
procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards,
and the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. | also
understand that in the event | would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or
jurisdiction that this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board to the
same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to Md.
Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg., and that this Permanent Letter of Surrender
constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

| affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to
surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substance Registration to the Office of Controlled
Substances Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of
Surrender, my license will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree that
I have no right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice medicine in the
State of Maryland.

T acknowledge that | may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, | wish to make clear that | have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout
proceedings before Panel A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to
signing this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I understand both the nature of Panel A’s
actions and this Permanent Letter of Surrender fully. | acknowledge that | understand and
