ORDERED that the Respondent is placed on PROBATION for a minimum period of TWO
(2) YEARS.? During the probation, the Respondent shall comply with the following terms and
conditions:
1. The Respondent shall remain enrolled in MPRP:

a. The Respondent shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all of
MPRP's referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited to, the
terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s) and
Participant Rehabilitation Plans(s) entered into with MPRP, and shall fully
participate and comply with all therapy, treatment, evaluations, and screenings
as directed by MPRP;

b. The Respondent shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to
authorize the Board to disclose relevant information from MPRP records and
files in a public order. The Respondent shall not withdraw his release/consent;

c. The Respondent shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize
MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities
(including all of the Respondent’ s current therapists and treatment providers)
verbal and written information concerning the Respondent and to ensure that
MPRP is authorized to receive the medical records of the Respondent,
including, but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and
treatment records. The Respondent shall not withdraw his release/consent;

d. The Respondent’s failure to comply with any of the above terms and conditions
including terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s)
or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation of this Order
Terminating Suspension and Imposing Probation;

IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that if, upon the authorization of MPRP, the
Respondent transfers to a rehabilitation program in another State, his failure to comply with
any term or condition of the out-of-state’s rehabilitation program, constitutes a violation of
this Order. The Respondent shall also sign any out-of state written release/consent forms to
authorize the Board to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) the out-of-state
program verbal and written information concerning the Respondent, and to ensure that the
Board is authorized to receive the medical records of the Respondent, including, but not
limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment records. The
Respondent shall not withdraw the release/consent; and it is further

2 Ifthe Respondent’s license expires during the period of probation, the probation and any conditions will be tolled.
