Date: June 20 Z02Y

Mark D. Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

 

Re: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Julio Ramirez, M.D., License Number: D53645
Case Numbers: 2224-0040 & 2224-0091

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403, I have decided to permanently SURRENDER my license to practice medicine
in the State of Maryland, License Number D53645, effective immediately. | understand
that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any
individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise
engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland
Medical Practice Act (the “Act’’), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 ef seg. and other applicable laws.
In other words, as of the effective date of this Permanent Letter of Surrender, | understand
that the permanent surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as an
unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT,
and upon Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board received two complaints alleging that I
inappropriately touched the mothers of two patients and that the Board initiated an
investigation into the allegations. The Board also issued a Summary Suspension of my
license on or about April 30, 2024. I also acknowledge that the Board initiated an
investigation of my practice and my prescribing of ADHD medications. On May 24, 2024,
Panel A issued disciplinary charges against me under Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(i), (ii),
(22), (40) as well as the Board’s sexual misconduct regulations, in violation of Health Occ.
§1-212. The charges are attached as EXHIBIT A. I have decided to permanently
surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland due to my retirement
and to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these disciplinary charges.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary
charges. I acknowledge that for all purposes related to medical licensure in Maryland, the
charges will be treated as if proven.
