Mark D. Olszyk, M.D. and Members of Disciplinary Panel A
RE: Julio Ramirez, M.D.

Permanent Letter of Surrender
Page 2

I understand that by executing this Permanent Letter of Surrender I am waiving my
right to a hearing to contest the disciplinary charges. In waiving my right to contest the
charges, I am also waiving the right to be represented by counsel at the hearing, to confront
witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf, and all other substantive
and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal to circuit court.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards and
the National Practitioner Data Bank of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I also
understand that in the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or
jurisdiction that this Permanent Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the
Board to the same extent as a final order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant
to Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 ef seg. and that this Permanent Letter of Surrender
constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

| affirm that I will provide access to and copies of medical records to my patients
in compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General Article. I also agree to
surrender my Controlled Dangerous Substances Registration to the Office of Controlled
Substances Administration.

I further recognize and agree that by submitting this Permanent Letter of Surrender,
my license in Maryland will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, | agree that
I have no right to reapply and will not reapply for a license to practice medicine in the State
of Maryland.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Permanent Letter of Surrender in part or
in its entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, I wish to make clear that I have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout proceedings
before Panel A, including the right to consult with an attorney prior to signing this
Permanent Letter of Surrender. | have consulted with and was represented by an attorney
prior to signing this letter permanently surrendering my license to practice medicine in
Maryland. I understand both the nature of Panel A’s actions and this Permanent Letter of
Surrender fully. I acknowledge that I understand and comprehend the language, meaning
and terms and effect of this Permanent Letter of Surrender. I make this decision knowingly
and voluntarily.

_——Very truly vours.

Signature On File

Y Julio Ramirez, M.D. +
