Sadiq Al- Samarrai, M.D.

Mark Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4 Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Permanent Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Sadiq Al-Samarrai, M.D., License Number: D69977
Case Number: 2225-0021A

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.”)
§14-403, I have decided to PERMANENTLY SURRENDER my license to practice
medicine in the State of Maryland, License Number D69977, effective immediately. |
understand that upon surrender of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment
to any individual, with or without compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or
otherwise engage in the practice of medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the
Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seq. and other
applicable laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Permanent Letter of
Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license means that I am in the same
position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Permanent Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, *
and upon Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of
Panel A of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board received a complaint alleging the potential existence
of a health condition that impacts my ability to safely practice medicine. I further
acknowledge that the Board began an investigation of these allegations, and that Panel A
summarily suspended my medical license on September 30, 2024. I have decided to
surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland! to avoid further
investigation and prosecution of these allegations and due to my current health condition
and retirement. I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure that these
allegations shall be treated as proven and that these allegations support a conclusion of
Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(4).

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to
submit this Permanent Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution

Upon Panel A’s acceptance of this permanent Letter of Surrender, I acknowledge that the Order for
Summary Suspension of License to Practice Medicine issued on September 30, 2024, is terminated as moot.
