ORDERED that Dr. Guewa is placed on PROBATION? for a minimum period of

FIVE YEARS, beginning on the date this Order goes into effect. During the probationary

period, Dr. Gucwa shall comply with the following terms and conditions of probation:

Dr. Guewa shall remain enrolled in MPRP as follows:

(a)

(b)

(d)

(e)

Dr. Gucwa shall continue her Participant Rehabilitation Agreement
and Participant Rehabilitation Plan with MPRP, or be entered into an
amended or superseding Participant Rehabilitation Agreement and
Participant Rehabilitation Plan, as determined by MPRP;

Dr. Gucwa shall fully and timely cooperate and comply with all
MPRP’s referrals, rules, and requirements, including, but not limited
to, the terms and conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation
Agreement(s) and Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) entered into with
MPRP, and shall fully participate and comply with all therapy,
treatment, evaluations, and screenings as directed by MPRP;

Dr. Gucwa shall sign and update the written release/consent forms
requested by the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms
to authorize MPRP to make verbal and written disclosures to the
Board and to authorize the Board to disclose relevant information
from MPRP records and files in a public order. Dr. Gucwa shall not
withdraw her release/consent;

Dr. Guewa shall also sign any written release/consent forms to
authorize MPRP to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from)
outside entities (including all of Dr. Gucwa’s current therapists and
treatment providers) verbal and written information concerning Dr.
Gucwa and to ensure that MPRP is authorized to receive the medical
records of Dr. Guewa, including, but not limited to, mental health and
drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment records, Dr. Guewa shall not
withdraw her release/consent; and

Dr. Gucwa’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or
conditions, including the terms or conditions of the Participant
Rehabilitation Agreement(s) or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s)
constitutes a violation of this Order; and it is further

* If Dr. Gucwa’s license expires during the period of probation, the probation and any conditions will be

tolled.
