(d) Dr. Lewis shall sign and update the written release/consent forms requested by
the Board and MPRP, including release/consent forms to authorize MPRP to
make verbal and written disclosures to the Board and to authorize the Board to
disclose relevant information from MPRP records and files in a public order.
Dr. Lewis shall not withdraw his release/consent;

(e) Dr. Lewis shall also sign any written release/consent forms to authorize MPRP
to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive from) outside entities (including
all of Dr. Lewis’s current therapists and treatment providers) verbal and
written information concerning Dr. Lewis and to ensure that MPRP is
authorized to receive the medical records of Dr. Lewis, including, but not
limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol evaluation and treatment records.
Dr. Lewis shall not withdraw his release/consent;

(f) If, upon the authorization of MPRP, Dr. Lewis transfers to a rehabilitation
program in another state, Dr. Lewis’s failure to comply with any term or
condition of the out-of-state’s rehabilitation program, constitutes a violation of
this Order. Dr. Lewis shall also sign any out-of-state written release/consent
forms to authorize the Board to exchange with (i.e., disclose to and receive
from) the out-of-state program verbal and written information concerning Dr.
Lewis, and to ensure that the Board is authorized to receive the medical records
of Dr. Lewis, including, but not limited to, mental health and drug or alcohol
evaluation and treatment records. Dr. Lewis shall not withdraw his
release/consent;

(f) Dr. Lewis’s failure to comply with any of the above terms or conditions
including terms or conditions of the Participant Rehabilitation Agreement(s)
or Participant Rehabilitation Plan(s) constitutes a violation of this Order;

(2) During the suspension period, Dr. Lewis shall not:

(a) practice medicine;

(b) take any actions after the effective date of this Order to hold himself out to the
public as a current provider of medical services;

(c) authorize, allow or condone the use of Dr. Lewis’s name or provider number
by any health care practice or any other licensee or health care provider;

(d) function as a peer reviewer for the Board or for any hospital or other medical
care facility in the State;

(e) prescribe or dispense medications; or

(f) perform any other act that requires an active medical license; and it is further
