BARIKA BUTLER-QUARLES, M.D.

Date: 05/22/2024

Mark D. Olszyk, M.D., Chair
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland State Board of Physicians
4201 Patterson Avenue, 4'" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215-2299

Re: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
Barika Butler-Quarles, M.D. License Number: D90605
Case Number: 2224-0051

Dear Dr. Olszyk and Members of the Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that, pursuant to Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. § 14-403, I have
decided to SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland,
License Number D90605, effective immediately. I understand that upon surrender of my
license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without
compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of
medicine in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act
(the “Act”), Health Occ. §§ 14-101 et seq. and other applicable laws. In other words, as of
the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the surrender of my license
means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT, and upon
Disciplinary Panel A’s (“Panel A”) acceptance, becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A of
the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”).

I acknowledge that the Board initiated an investigation of me based on my
disclosure in my 2022 license renewal application that had pending charges. As part of its
investigation, the Board made multiple written requests and issued a subpoena directing
that I produce and deliver to the Board all documents related to my court case, which I
failed to produce and deliver to the Board. As a result, on January 30, 2024, Panel A issued
disciplinary charges against me for being guilty of unprofessional conduct in the practice
of medicine, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-404(a)(3)(ii), and for failing to cooperate with
a lawful investigation conducted by the Board or a disciplinary panel, in violation of Health
Occ. § 14-404(a)(33). A copy of Panel A’s charges issued on January 30, 2024, is
attached hereto and incorporated herein. I have decided to surrender my license to
practice medicine in the State of Maryland to avoid prosecution of these allegations and
due to my inability to practice medicine in the foreseeable future as a result of my court
case. I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure these allegations shall
