Basri Sila, M.D.
ee
|

January 23, 2017

Christine A. Farrelly, Executive Director
Disciplinary Panel A

Maryland Board of Physicians

4201 Patterson Avenue, 4" Floor
Baltimore, MD 21215

RE: Surrender of License to Practice Medicine
License Number: D10428
MBP Case Number: 2016-0920

Dear Ms. Farrelly and Members of Disciplinary Panel A,

Please be advised that I have decided to SURRENDER my license to practice medicine in
the State of Maryland, License Number D10428, effective March 13, 2017. I will use the time
between now and the effective date to wrap-up treatment of my current patients as soon as possible
and I will not accept any new patients before the effective date. I understand that upon surrender
of my license, I may not give medical advice or treatment to any individual, with or without -- -
compensation, and cannot prescribe medications or otherwise engage in the practice of medicine
in the State of Maryland as it is defined in the Maryland Medical Practice Act (the “Act”), Md.
Code Ann., Health Occ. (“Health Occ.) §§ 14-101 et seg. (2014 Repl. Vol.) and other applicable
laws. In other words, as of the effective date of this Letter of Surrender, I understand that the
surrender of my license means that I am in the same position as an unlicensed individual in the
State of Maryland.

I understand that this Letter of Surrender is a PUBLIC DOCUMENT and on Disciplinary
Panel A (“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians’ (the “Board’s”) acceptance,
becomes a FINAL ORDER of Panel A.

I acknowledge that the Board opened an investigation concerning my overprescribing of
controlled substances. I have decided to surrender my license to practice medicine in the State of
Maryland to avoid further investigation and prosecution of these allegations and due to my current
health issues and planned retirement. I recognize that for all purposes relevant to medical licensure
that these allegations shall be treated as proven and that these allegations support a conclusion that

I violated Health Occ. § 14-404(a) (22), which requires that a physician practice within the
standard of care.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly and freely chosen to submit this
Letter of Surrender to avoid the issuance of charges and prosecution of the aforementioned
allegations. I do not wish to contest these allegations.
