I have decided to permanently surrender my license to practice medicine in the
State of Maryland to avoid further prosecution of the disciplinary charges now pending
before the Board, and due to my age and planned retirement. If charges in this case
were to proceed to a hearing, I agree that the State would be able to prove that I
violated Md. Code Ann., Health Occ. II § 14-404(a)(3)(ii)(unprofessional conduct in the
practice of medicine) and § 14-404(a)(22)(failure to meet appropriate standards for the
delivery of quality medical care). For purposes related to medical licensure, these
charges will be treated as proven.

I wish to make it clear that I have voluntarily, knowingly, and freely chosen to
submit this Letter of Surrender to avoid prosecution of the aforementioned charges
under the Act.

I understand that by executing this Letter of Surrender, I am waiving my right to
contest the Charges issued by Panel A and its investigative findings in a formal
evidentiary hearing at which I would have had the right to counsel, to confront
witnesses, to give testimony, to call witnesses on my own behalf and to all other
substantive and procedural protections provided by law, including the right to appeal.

I understand that the Board will advise the Federation of State Medical Boards,
the National Practitioner Data Bank, and the Healthcare Integrity and Protection Data
Bank of this Letter of Surrender, and in response to any inquiry, that I have surrendered
my license in lieu of further disciplinary action under the Act. I also understand that in
the event I would apply for licensure in any form in any other state or jurisdiction that
this Letter of Surrender may be released or published by the Board or Panel A to the
same extent as a Final Order that would result from disciplinary action, pursuant to
Md. Code Ann., Gen. Prov. §§ 4-101 et seq. (2014), and that this Letter of Surrender
constitutes a disciplinary action by Panel A.

I affirm that as of the date of this Letter of Surrender, I will present to the Board
my original Maryland medical license, number D13629, and any renewal wallet cards. I
also affirm that I will provide access to and copies of patient medical records in
compliance with Title 4, subtitle 3 of the Health General article.

I further recognize and agree that by tendering this Letter of Surrender that my
license will remain permanently surrendered. In other words, I agree I have no right to
reapply for a license to practice medicine in the State of Maryland. I further agree that
the Board or a disciplinary panel is not obligated to consider any application for
licensure that I might file at a future date.

I acknowledge that I may not rescind this Letter of Surrender in part or in its
entirety for any reason whatsoever. Finally, | wish to make clear that I have been
advised of my right to be represented by an attorney of my choice throughout

2
