IN THE MATTER OF * BEFORE THE

JEFFERY DORMU, D.O. * MARYLAND STATE
Respondent * BOARD OF PHYSICIANS
License Number: H65639 * Case Number: 7723-0024
ES %* * * * * * * * * * * *

ORDER TERMINATING SUSPENSION AND IMPOSING PROBATION

On October 11, 2022, Jeffery Dormu, D.O. (the “Respondent”) and Disciplinary Panel A
(“Panel A”) of the Maryland State Board of Physicians (the “Board”) entered into a Consent Order!
wherein Panel A concluded, as a matter of law, that the Respondent grossly overutilized health
care services, failed to meet the standard of care for the delivery of quality medical services, and
failed to keep adequate medical records.

Under the terms of the Consent Order, Panel A reprimanded the Respondent, suspended
the Respondent’s Maryland medical license for a minimum period of thirty (30) calendar days*
and until a supervisor board certified in vascular surgery is approved by Panel A.3 The Consent
Order also provided that after the minimum period of suspension has passed, and after receiving
Panel A’s approval of a supervisor, the Respondent may submit a written petition for termination
of suspension. In addition, the Consent Order provided that the Panel may terminate the suspension
following a determination of the Respondent’s compliance with the relevant terms of the Consent
Order, and upon termination, the Respondent is placed on probation for a minimum period of two

years with probationary terms and conditions.

' The October 11, 2022 Consent Order is incorporated by reference and available by request.

° Terms of the suspension included a prohibition on the Respondent's practice of medicine, implementation of a
procedure for the Respondent’s patients to obtain their medical records, and a requirement that the Respondent notify
in writing all associated athletic trainers, physician assistants, and naturopathic doctors of the termination of any
protocols, delegation agreements, or collaborative agreements.

5 The Respondent’s license expired on September 30, 2022. As a result, the terms and conditions of the Consent Order
were tolled. The Board reinstated the Respondent’s medical license on February 28, 2024.

 
