10.

On October 4, 2021, the Superior Court of the District of Columbia found the

Applicant guilty of misdemeanor sexual abuse of a minor.

11.

As of November 24, 2021, the Applicant is no longer required to register as a sex

offender under the Maryland Sex Offender Act.

12.

The Applicant submitted an application for athletic trainer license on December 6,

2022 (Application).

13.

14.

The Applicant answered yes to the following questions:

14a, Has a state licensing or disciplinary board (including Maryland), a
comparable body in the armed services, or the Veterans Administration,
ever denied your application for licensure, reinstatement, or renewal?

14b, Has a state licensing or disciplinary board (including Maryland), a
comparable body in the armed services, or the Veterans Administration,
ever taken action against your license? Such actions include, but are not
limited to, limitation of practice, required education admonishment, or
reprimand, suspension, probation or revocation.

14c. Has any licensing or disciplinary board in any jurisdiction (including
Maryland), a comparable body in the armed services or the Veterans
Administration, ever filed any complaints or charges against you or
investigated you for any reason?

14d. Have you ever pleaded guilty or nolo contendere to any criminal
charge, been convicted of a crime, or received probation before judgment
because of a criminal charge?

14n. Has your employment or contractual relationship with any hospital,
HMO, other health care facility, health care provider, institution, armed
services, or the Veterans Administration ever been terminated for
disciplinary reasons?

140. Have you ever voluntarily resigned or terminated a contract with any
hospital, HMO, or hospital, HMO, other health care facility, health care
provider, institution, armed services, or the Veterans Administration while
under investigation by that institution for disciplinary reasons?

The Applicant did not report the denial of a license in Delaware on his application.
