violation of Health Oce. § 14-5D-14(a)(3) as well as constitute a crime involving moral turpitude
in violation of Health Occ. § 14-5D-14(b)(2). Mr. Augustin does not dispute that he was convicted
of the crime, but, as the ALJ found, he is still minimizing the events that happened.

Mr. Augustin spent much time discussing a professional boundaries course that he had
submitted before the ALJ, but, as he acknowledged, he had not taken the course at the time of the
OAH hearing, and there is nothing in the record before the Panel B that reflects the completion of
the course. Accordingly, the details of the course are of little importance in determining whether
Mr. Augustin should be granted a license as an athletic trainer in Maryland.

Finally, the ALJ addressed whether Mr. Augustin possesses good moral character, which
is a requirement of licensure. See Health Occ. § 14-5D-08(b)(1). The ALJ explained that the
evidence pertaining to Mr. Augustin’s character was limited because Mr. Augustin did not provide
any testimony from a character witness, nor did he submit any letters on his behalf to support his
position that he possesses good moral character. He admitted that he was denied a license in
Delaware in 2017 and that he did not report the license denial on his application for licensure in
Maryland. The Panel agrees with the ALJ that Mr. Augustin does not possess the good moral
character that is required of all licensees.

CONCLUSIONS OF LAW

Panel B adopts the ALJ’s Proposed Conclusions of Law that Mr. Augustin failed to prove
that he qualifies for an athletic trainer's license because he lacks good moral character, see Health
Oce. § 14-5D-08(b)(1); he is guilty of unprofessional and immoral conduct in the practice of
athletic training, in violation of Health Occ. § 14-5D-14(a)(3); and he was disciplined by a
licensing, certifying, or disciplinary authority or was convicted or disciplined by a court of any

state for an act that would be grounds for disciplinary action under this section, in violation of
