in ANY other health occupation. . . . If you have never been licensed in any other health

occupation, write N/A here.” The Applicant wrote, “N/A.”

4, On pages five and six of the Application, the Applicant answered “No” to

the following questions in the in the section entitled, “Character and Fitness Questions”:

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

“Has a state licensing or disciplinary board (including Maryland), a
comparable body in the armed services or the Veterans
Administration, ever taken action against your license? Such actions
include, but are not limited to, limitations of practice, required
education admonishment or reprimand, suspension, probation or
revocation.”

“Has any licensing or disciplinary board in any jurisdiction
(including Maryland), a comparable body in the armed services or
the Veterans Administration, ever filed any complaints or charges
against you or investigated you for any reason?”

“Has a hospital, related health care institution, HMO, or alternative
health care system ever investigated you or ever brought charges
against you?”

“Has a hospital, related health care institution, HMO, or alternative
health care system ever denied your application; failed to renew your
privileges, including your privileges as a resident; or limited,
restricted, suspended, or revoked your privileges in any way?”

“Have you ever voluntarily resigned or terminated a contract with
any hospital, HMO, other health care facility, health care provider,
institution, armed services or the Veterans Administration while
under investigation by that institution for disciplinary reasons?”

5. On page seven of the Application, the Applicant signed his name underneath

the following certification:

I certify that I have personally reviewed all responses to the items in this
application and that the information I have given is true and correct to the
best of my knowledge and that any false information provided as part of my
application may be the cause for the denial of my application. I also certify
that | am thoroughly familiar with the Statute (MD. Code Ann., Health Occ.

4
